# A thought on fanfiction

> 1 April 2017

Fanfiction is a study in what works and what doesn't, and how something that
really seems like it shouldn't work actually does if you do it in a particular
way. You get a lot of that in Ship Fanfiction, where most of the canon plot is
background, and the focus of the fic is the particular Ship it's exploring.
There's a LOT of Dramione out there that is really terrible. Clearly that ship
is a bad idea. But if you just switch a thing or two around, dim some canon
details, brighten others, change the levels of the picture it's painting… and
then _write well_, you can actually make it appealing and have it not only
_work_, but also be quite genuine in its execution.

(A side note: Harry Potter fanficdom is by far the largest, so despite that
universe not being as good as others, and in fact being quite flawed, it's
where there's a lot of different examples of the patterns and interests of
fanfic.)

Another thing goes back to fanfic being social: fanfic is often _meta_. Not
just in the "this fanfic refers or hints or has homages to other fanfics" way.
But because of the way previous fanfic has already explored many different
concepts, a fanfic writer will have a general sense of fanfic tropes. There's
stuff to avoid, there's stuff that's already been done a thousand times so it
can be _safe_ to use if you need to have a filler, there's stuff that's
generally said to be impossible to do, so you attempt it anyway because you
want to see if you can do it. There's community writing challenges, where you
get a concept and play with it, or try to write it in.

Fanfic authors, most of the time, are _aware of the context_. They're aware of
the tropes. They're aware of the trends. They're aware of Murphy's Law. And
they can _play with that_. Fiction (not fanfic) writers tend to not do that.
Except for a particular genre of comedy, which is somehow exempt of that
limitation.

To use one of the classic examples: If, in a fanfic, someone states "I won't
die." there is a more-than-even chance that the speaker will, or will come
close to it, just because the words were said. But _the writer knows that_. And
you, as a reader, _know that the writer knows that_. So now, the expectation is
that the words being there causing the action is _too obvious_. So it won't
happen. Or there'll be a twist in some way. Or maybe it happens, but only
off-screen. Fanfic writers, more often than other writers, _subvert_ tropes,
instead of only writing them.

(And that's an argument for non-fanfiction writers reading more fanfiction: so
they then are inspired to break tropes and make chaos, to not always write the
same whitewashed hero and conventional romances, to not always have Bad Romance
and Good Romance, but something in between, or something that transcends it, or
something that perverts it. And there's writers doing that, sure, but they're
too few and far between, I think.)

I see it a bit like the classical composers, who (according to Dad) would
compose something and then send it to their contemporaries and be like "look at
I did, can you improve on that?" and the recipients would create Variations on
a Theme, and tease out patterns that are interesting in their own right, and
then compose something around _that_ and send it back. Or maybe take a minor
voice and make it major, take that movement that tells the story of the calm
and long lamentations of the Winter Lady and make it instead about the fast
wailing of a scorned lover, carve out the pattern the cellos are playing and
bring it to the fore into a concerto, completely eliminate the melody and see
what stands out… Essentially doing nothing but recursive fanmusic, and then
what little would get out to the public would sound _"so original, what a
delight"_… "here, have a bunch of money to keep doing what you're doing".

Another thing: while there _is_ fanfic that keeps to the tone of canon, _that_
is actually a particular style, a challenge in fact. How to write something
that is _yours_ while also following down to the beat and down to the semitone
the cadence and key of the original? The rest of fanfiction doesn't follow
canon, and just… plays in the sandbox left by the original creator. It puts
concrete in the sand and erects impossible spires, it attempts to break out of
the walls, and it even invites itself in other sandboxes, bringing some of its
sand and some of its tools over to a completely new universe. But it's all a
lot easier to get started and get writing and get exploring than building an
entirely new sandbox by yourself. It's a lot less emotionally taxing, and that
translates as freedom to do a lot more.

Not that it means fanfic is always easy to write, I say as I add notes to my
detailed timeline of my Star Wars AU, which helpfully indicates, in an
intricate weaving of lines and colours, which parts are taken from canon, which
are mine, which refer to what other fanfiction, which are from Legends, which
are well-defined, which are up in the air. You can plan as _little_ or as
_much_ as you want, there's no worldbuilding nor character development
necessary — only if you _want_ to do it. And I like that about the medium.

> This was several responses I posted in Merveilles, then edited together
> and published properly here.
