2017-dec-04-guy-adjacent.md, before:

---
date: 2017-12-04T00:09:49+13:00
title: Guy-Adjacent
frontpage: false
tags:
   - thought
   - gender
   - enby
---

I think I've finally figured out a name for my gender identity thing that feels
okay. Not super great. But… okay.

I'm not enby. Like, I'm _technically_ non-binary, agender something, but also
like no. I'm not taking this label for myself. I feel like I would be taking
space away from others if I used that. I don't have most of the issues and
struggles I see and witness other non-binaries go through.

I'm not discriminated against in any real way. I don't have gender-related
dysphoria, or maybe just a tiny bit that I'm not completely sure is really
about gender at all. It's hard to tell.

So it feels like you're all this giant awesome fucked up family and I'm the one
well-adjusted person in the middle of it.

<s>So I'm **guy-adjacent**.</s>

I don't particularly like the word guy? But it works here in a way
"man-adjacent" doesn't. I'm not a guy. I'm… adjacent.

Hi.

(And hello again: [see this newer post][more-words] for more on my words.)

[more-words]: /2018/sep/13/my-words

Commit message:

[Labels] Actually old posts are not unpublished

2017-dec-04-guy-adjacent.md, after:

---
date: 2017-12-04T00:09:49+13:00
title: Guy-Adjacent
frontpage: false
tags:
   - thought
   - gender
   - enby
---

I think I've finally figured out a name for my gender identity thing that feels
okay. Not super great. But… okay.

I'm not enby. Like, I'm _technically_ non-binary, agender something, but also
like no. I'm not taking this label for myself. I feel like I would be taking
space away from others if I used that. I don't have most of the issues and
struggles I see and witness other non-binaries go through.

I'm not discriminated against in any real way. I don't have gender-related
dysphoria, or maybe just a tiny bit that I'm not completely sure is really
about gender at all. It's hard to tell.

So it feels like you're all this giant awesome fucked up family and I'm the one
well-adjusted person in the middle of it.

<s>So I'm **guy-adjacent**.</s>

I don't particularly like the word guy? But it works here in a way
"man-adjacent" doesn't. I'm not a guy. I'm… adjacent.

Hi.

(And hello again: [see this newer post][more-words] for more on my words.)

(And again, this [even newer post](/2020/jun/23/check-all-applicable-labels) for yet another take on labels.)

[more-words]: /2018/sep/13/my-words
