2017-apr-10-monthly-update.md, before:

---
title: "Monthly update: April 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/mar/10/monthly-update"
---

## Style

As you've probably noticed, I have refreshed the style of this website, as well
as the [root of my domain][root]. Goodbye monospaced font for everything! The
font is [Rawson Pro], by the ever-talented foundry **Latinotype**. And do check
out "Dark mode" by clicking the tiny little button labelled "Day" (or "Night")
in the bottom left corner.

[root]: https://passcod.name
[Rawson Pro]: https://www.myfonts.com/fonts/latinotype/rawson

## Rust

I wrote down [a massive design document][desdoc] for Notify's future, then
submitted it to the Rust Reddit community to hopefully get some comments and
reviews. The response was mostly positive, I think. However, actual
implementation will likely take a back seat for month to come, as I work on
other creative endeavours (see below).

I also published [version 4.0 of Cargo Watch][watch4], following a
near-complete rewrite and finally resolving several long-standing bugs and
feature requests, including one or two that had been open for more than a year!

I also upgraded Cargo Watch's supporting documents to [WeAllBehave][wab] and
[WeAllContribute][wac]'s outstanding templates, adapting them slightly so
they're more compatible with a Rust project.

[desdoc]: https://github.com/passcod/notify/issues/117
[watch4]: https://github.com/passcod/cargo-watch/releases/tag/v4.0.0
[wab]: https://github.com/WeAllJS/weallbehave
[wac]: https://github.com/WeAllJS/weallcontribute

## Open source and community

I'm hoping to ramp up my contribution to not only these two projects, but also
going to more events, and participating in the developer community. The last
two years have been _very quiet_ personally on that front, and I'd like to
remedy that.

## NZ.js

NZ.js was really good! One attendee made [a recap via tweets][nzjs-recap], and
[all the talks][nzjs-talks] are already up and available. If you only have a
little time, I recommend the opening keynote by @rockbot, the closing talk by
@prototypealex, but almost all the other talks were great too, of course.
Almost? Almost. There was definitely **one** that I didn't care for at all, and
maybe a couple others were merely _meh_. But overall? great stuff.

[nzjs-recap]: https://storify.com/knfrances/nz-js-con-wellington-march-2017
[nzjs-talks]: http://conference.javascript.org.nz/schedule/

## Master Kylo

(That title will have to change, but I'm bad at titles.)

I [tweeted an (intentionally) blurry photo][mk-timeline] of a timeline I put up
on my whiteboard. That was a progress shot: its current state is quite a bit
more complete, but I also can't show it because ***spoilers***.

Black is what I'm using from Canon, boxed names are characters or organisations
I care about (or for context), and correspond to lines showing, by their
proximity, where people/orgs are in relation to others. Purple is the Alternate
Universe parts of my fic, the things that are not Canon. Yes, this fic is
multiple-points-of-departure.

You can't see it because it's so faint, but there's also dates indicated. That
busy middle bit before the vertical line going upwards is the period between 5
and 28 ABY. The leftmost of the board starts at 19 BBY, i.e. the end of Episode
III, and the rightmost lines end around 34 ABY, i.e. Episode VII. I left a bit
of space after that for the actual action of my fic. It's not to scale! There's
some areas that are very expanded, and some where five years take as many
centimetres. I only have so much space.

I'm now aiming to have a solid detailed outline for Part 1 of the fic, covering
about 0 ABY until 33 ABY in various threads, as well as at least 15% (10-12k
words) of the material drafted out, for my birthday. That's in a month or so.

The fic has shifted focus a few times during the last few months, and now as it
approaches its final (for now) plan it's about the lives and events of several
characters in-between Episodes VI and VII. We'll see a little of Luke and Leia
and Han, but it's mostly about the Resistance and how it kept on fighting,
about a boy being kidnapped from a Sectors planet and finding a good head for
strategy and good company… only to lose it when his conscience calls him out,
leaving behind a troubled young man who has no idea what he'll become. It's
about an explorer keeping his faith even as he sees a dear friend withdraw from
the world (with good reason) and as he leaves a place that felt like home to
hide away, but who also cannot escape the call of discovery and curiosity. It's
about a mysterious voice speaking on old frequencies bringing hope and tales
and unlikely help. It's about a young woman in a hostile environment determined
to get out and make her mark on the world, and it's about another determined to
stay put and survive where she is. It's about the worlds continuing to turn
while you're looking away.

What's amusing is that the plot point that triggered the conception of this fic
is now a minor detail that will be used only two or three times. But it's
there, a reminder that even when you think you know how things work, they can
surprise you. That's what this detail is, and that's what this story is.

[mk-timeline]: https://twitter.com/passcod/status/843336749388447744

## Original Fiction

Those are original serial fiction I follow and have read one or more chapters
of, this month. Genre is in brackets.

- {Superhero} [Tieshaunn](https://tieshaunn.wordpress.com).
- {Renaissance Fantasy} [Twisted Cogs](https://twistedcogs.wordpress.com/).
- {Superhero} [Super Powereds](http://www.drewhayesnovels.com/superpowereds/).
- {Magic Fantasy} [Mother of Learning](https://www.fictionpress.com/s/2961893/1/Mother-of-Learning).
- {Superhero} [Anathema](https://anathemaserial.wordpress.com/).
- {Mystery} [Tourist](https://notsafforwork.com/tourist/).

I also read [Aftermath: Life Debt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Aftermath:_Life_Debt) and [Empire's End](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Aftermath:_Empire%27s_End). Hmmmph.

## Fanfiction

This month, taking a bit of a break, and only keeping up with stories I follow.
The ones listed below are not _all_ I follow, but those I started before
listing them in these Monthly Updates, and that I think deserve a mention.

- {Pokémon} [The Origin of Species](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9794740/1/Pokemon-The-Origin-of-Species).
- {Pokémon} [The Line](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11273833/1/Pok%C3%A9mon-The-Line).
- {HP} [In enemy waters](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11685990/1/In-enemy-waters).
- {LotR} [The Shadow War](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/10853714/1/The-Shadow-War).
- {Naruto} [A Drop of Poison](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4573620/1/A-Drop-of-Poison).
- {HP} [Hogwarts Battle School](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/8379655/1/Hogwarts-Battle-School).
- {SW} [Contrasts](http://contrasts-comic.tumblr.com/). That's a fancomic!

I managed to read a few new stories after all:

- {HP} [Soul Scars](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11923792/1/Soul-Scars). Seemed creepy but the author is awesome so I read anyway… it's actually very cute and an excellent exploration of the concept, written in 21 stories each following a character. Very much recommended, and a short enough read to actually be doable when otherwise busy. {64k words}
- {HP} [Safe Word is Devil's Snare](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8376331). This is lovely. Very NSFW. {96k words}
- {HP} [Misplaced Moony](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8376253). Okay well I guess I'm going to binge all of ShayaLonnie's stuff. Ongoing. {64k words atow}
- {HP} [Amid the Chaos](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8375905). I really need to transfer my FFN skin over to AO3. {22k words atow}
- {HP} [Storm of Yesterday](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8850352). Well, I cried, hope you're happy, $author. {130k words}
- {HP} [The Reclamation of Black Magic](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8374798). Rituals and good!Blacks. {105k words atow}
- {HP} [Arx Domus Nigrae](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/10506441/1/Arx-Domus-Nigrae). Recommended by ShayaLonnie, did not disappoint. {113k words atow}
- {HP} [Nihil est ab Omni Parte Beatum](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5733457). Another one with a latin title. {108k words}

And then I started earnestly into writing my fanfic, and predictably, I got to
reading lots more Star Wars fics. Official pretext for this is "gotta find
voices and get into the feel for writing my characters" but of course the plots
and cuties are why I stay.

But seriously, encountering characters I'm writing and have been thinking about
for the past few months in other fanfics is pretty cool. It really lets me
figure out the edges of my characters, and think about behaviour/personality
for more than just the obvious by comparing against what I'm reading. And when
something really clashes, I have to think and mentally point out details that
justify why I feel like the characterisation is wrong.

For example, there's a few fics-with-Rey below that have her as a sociable
lovable figure who trusts people easily, like, what??? No. She's been a
scavenger for fifteen years, she's canonically been betrayed by people she
thought were her peers fairly early on, she lived alone for ages, she was
exploited by adults around her until she got strong enough to fuck off on her
own, one of the only beings who halfway protected her and gave her the
opportunity to earn for the past ten years called the Empire on her (*this is
portrayed somewhat differently in the novelisations, but while the details
change a bit, the broad strokes remain the same*) at the drop of a hat. She's
not going to be a bubbly extrovert now. What is wrong with you.

- {SW} [Tomorrow (there'll be more of us)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5648131). Perfect. {3k words}
- {SW} [Coupling](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5494547). Cute in fanfic, but that's actually kinda shitty, Poe. {3k words}
- {SW} [Coming Together](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5553476). Okay, but it was done better by _Soul Scars_ above. {6k words}
- {SW} [better stand up straight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5481992). {3k words}
- {SW} [do not take love advice from sweary droids](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5754172). Apart from the misgendering of BB-8, good inspiration for irreverent droids. {2k words}
- {SW} [No other exile](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5491907). Kinda like my Phasma, except way less depth. {3k words}
- {SW} [In Good Hands](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5519408). Another sweary droid fic. {2k words}
- {SW} [Negotiator](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3578757). {31k words}
- {SW} Reprise: [I](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5201648), [II](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6689737), [III](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7997587). Mostly Obi-Wan, but also good insights into Jedi/Senate mechanics. {95k + 135k + 81k words atow}
- {SW} [to the sky without wings](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5609887). Now that was great, and also gave me lots of references for TFA voices. Lots of sadness, awesome diversity. Would love SW movies like that tbh (would also cry a lot so maybe not, but). {81k words}
- {SW} [we wore the jacket for the longest time](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5507783). Yeah, cute, but strong feeling of "not my Rey". Behaviour goes against the character. {4k + 2k words}
- {SW/Stargate} [A Star to Steer By](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3514793). _Really weird_ but makes sense. Clone/soldiering interactions/voices useful, although the nature of the crossover makes it tough to figure what I can safely import. Throwaway scene where Galaxy people are baffled by the Earthling concept of "only two genders" was a nice touch. {82k words atow}
- {SW} [Fundamental Force Carriers](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6252790). Very detailed, well explored. {88k words}
- {SW} Ouroboros: [Wake the Storm](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1080760), [Queen's Gambit](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1287526), plus [side](https://archiveofourown.org/works/2360390) [stories](https://archiveofourown.org/works/2405450). Series followed for upcoming third part. {75k + 355k + 15k + 15k words atow}
- {SW} [You Shall Become (me)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6113875). {25k words}
- {SW} Hindsight series: [Hindsight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1046282) and [Foresight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1167741). {58k + 160k words atow}

Commit message:

[Apr 2017] Link ‘A Thought on Fanfiction’

2017-apr-10-monthly-update.md, after:

---
title: "Monthly update: April 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/mar/10/monthly-update"
---

## Style

As you've probably noticed, I have refreshed the style of this website, as well
as the [root of my domain][root]. Goodbye monospaced font for everything! The
font is [Rawson Pro], by the ever-talented foundry **Latinotype**. And do check
out "Dark mode" by clicking the tiny little button labelled "Day" (or "Night")
in the bottom left corner.

[root]: https://passcod.name
[Rawson Pro]: https://www.myfonts.com/fonts/latinotype/rawson

## Rust

I wrote down [a massive design document][desdoc] for Notify's future, then
submitted it to the Rust Reddit community to hopefully get some comments and
reviews. The response was mostly positive, I think. However, actual
implementation will likely take a back seat for month to come, as I work on
other creative endeavours (see below).

I also published [version 4.0 of Cargo Watch][watch4], following a
near-complete rewrite and finally resolving several long-standing bugs and
feature requests, including one or two that had been open for more than a year!

I also upgraded Cargo Watch's supporting documents to [WeAllBehave][wab] and
[WeAllContribute][wac]'s outstanding templates, adapting them slightly so
they're more compatible with a Rust project.

[desdoc]: https://github.com/passcod/notify/issues/117
[watch4]: https://github.com/passcod/cargo-watch/releases/tag/v4.0.0
[wab]: https://github.com/WeAllJS/weallbehave
[wac]: https://github.com/WeAllJS/weallcontribute

## Open source and community

I'm hoping to ramp up my contribution to not only these two projects, but also
going to more events, and participating in the developer community. The last
two years have been _very quiet_ personally on that front, and I'd like to
remedy that.

## NZ.js

NZ.js was really good! One attendee made [a recap via tweets][nzjs-recap], and
[all the talks][nzjs-talks] are already up and available. If you only have a
little time, I recommend the opening keynote by @rockbot, the closing talk by
@prototypealex, but almost all the other talks were great too, of course.
Almost? Almost. There was definitely **one** that I didn't care for at all, and
maybe a couple others were merely _meh_. But overall? great stuff.

[nzjs-recap]: https://storify.com/knfrances/nz-js-con-wellington-march-2017
[nzjs-talks]: http://conference.javascript.org.nz/schedule/

## Master Kylo

(That title will have to change, but I'm bad at titles.)

I [tweeted an (intentionally) blurry photo][mk-timeline] of a timeline I put up
on my whiteboard. That was a progress shot: its current state is quite a bit
more complete, but I also can't show it because ***spoilers***.

Black is what I'm using from Canon, boxed names are characters or organisations
I care about (or for context), and correspond to lines showing, by their
proximity, where people/orgs are in relation to others. Purple is the Alternate
Universe parts of my fic, the things that are not Canon. Yes, this fic is
multiple-points-of-departure.

You can't see it because it's so faint, but there's also dates indicated. That
busy middle bit before the vertical line going upwards is the period between 5
and 28 ABY. The leftmost of the board starts at 19 BBY, i.e. the end of Episode
III, and the rightmost lines end around 34 ABY, i.e. Episode VII. I left a bit
of space after that for the actual action of my fic. It's not to scale! There's
some areas that are very expanded, and some where five years take as many
centimetres. I only have so much space.

I'm now aiming to have a solid detailed outline for Part 1 of the fic, covering
about 0 ABY until 33 ABY in various threads, as well as at least 15% (10-12k
words) of the material drafted out, for my birthday. That's in a month or so.

The fic has shifted focus a few times during the last few months, and now as it
approaches its final (for now) plan it's about the lives and events of several
characters in-between Episodes VI and VII. We'll see a little of Luke and Leia
and Han, but it's mostly about the Resistance and how it kept on fighting,
about a boy being kidnapped from a Sectors planet and finding a good head for
strategy and good company… only to lose it when his conscience calls him out,
leaving behind a troubled young man who has no idea what he'll become. It's
about an explorer keeping his faith even as he sees a dear friend withdraw from
the world (with good reason) and as he leaves a place that felt like home to
hide away, but who also cannot escape the call of discovery and curiosity. It's
about a mysterious voice speaking on old frequencies bringing hope and tales
and unlikely help. It's about a young woman in a hostile environment determined
to get out and make her mark on the world, and it's about another determined to
stay put and survive where she is. It's about the worlds continuing to turn
while you're looking away.

What's amusing is that the plot point that triggered the conception of this fic
is now a minor detail that will be used only two or three times. But it's
there, a reminder that even when you think you know how things work, they can
surprise you. That's what this detail is, and that's what this story is.

[mk-timeline]: https://twitter.com/passcod/status/843336749388447744

## Thoughts on Fanfiction

I wrote a little on [what I think fanfiction is about][thoughts].

[thoughts]: https://blog.passcod.name/2017/apr/01/a-thought-on-fanfiction

## Original Fiction

Those are original serial fiction I follow and have read one or more chapters
of, this month. Genre is in brackets.

- {Superhero} [Tieshaunn](https://tieshaunn.wordpress.com).
- {Renaissance Fantasy} [Twisted Cogs](https://twistedcogs.wordpress.com/).
- {Superhero} [Super Powereds](http://www.drewhayesnovels.com/superpowereds/).
- {Magic Fantasy} [Mother of Learning](https://www.fictionpress.com/s/2961893/1/Mother-of-Learning).
- {Superhero} [Anathema](https://anathemaserial.wordpress.com/).
- {Mystery} [Tourist](https://notsafforwork.com/tourist/).

I also read [Aftermath: Life Debt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Aftermath:_Life_Debt) and [Empire's End](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Aftermath:_Empire%27s_End). Hmmmph.

## Fanfiction

This month, taking a bit of a break, and only keeping up with stories I follow.
The ones listed below are not _all_ I follow, but those I started before
listing them in these Monthly Updates, and that I think deserve a mention.

- {Pokémon} [The Origin of Species](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9794740/1/Pokemon-The-Origin-of-Species).
- {Pokémon} [The Line](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11273833/1/Pok%C3%A9mon-The-Line).
- {HP} [In enemy waters](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11685990/1/In-enemy-waters).
- {LotR} [The Shadow War](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/10853714/1/The-Shadow-War).
- {Naruto} [A Drop of Poison](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4573620/1/A-Drop-of-Poison).
- {HP} [Hogwarts Battle School](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/8379655/1/Hogwarts-Battle-School).
- {SW} [Contrasts](http://contrasts-comic.tumblr.com/). That's a fancomic!

I managed to read a few new stories after all:

- {HP} [Soul Scars](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11923792/1/Soul-Scars). Seemed creepy but the author is awesome so I read anyway… it's actually very cute and an excellent exploration of the concept, written in 21 stories each following a character. Very much recommended, and a short enough read to actually be doable when otherwise busy. {64k words}
- {HP} [Safe Word is Devil's Snare](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8376331). This is lovely. Very NSFW. {96k words}
- {HP} [Misplaced Moony](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8376253). Okay well I guess I'm going to binge all of ShayaLonnie's stuff. Ongoing. {64k words atow}
- {HP} [Amid the Chaos](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8375905). I really need to transfer my FFN skin over to AO3. {22k words atow}
- {HP} [Storm of Yesterday](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8850352). Well, I cried, hope you're happy, $author. {130k words}
- {HP} [The Reclamation of Black Magic](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8374798). Rituals and good!Blacks. {105k words atow}
- {HP} [Arx Domus Nigrae](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/10506441/1/Arx-Domus-Nigrae). Recommended by ShayaLonnie, did not disappoint. {113k words atow}
- {HP} [Nihil est ab Omni Parte Beatum](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5733457). Another one with a latin title. {108k words}

And then I started earnestly into writing my fanfic, and predictably, I got to
reading lots more Star Wars fics. Official pretext for this is "gotta find
voices and get into the feel for writing my characters" but of course the plots
and cuties are why I stay.

But seriously, encountering characters I'm writing and have been thinking about
for the past few months in other fanfics is pretty cool. It really lets me
figure out the edges of my characters, and think about behaviour/personality
for more than just the obvious by comparing against what I'm reading. And when
something really clashes, I have to think and mentally point out details that
justify why I feel like the characterisation is wrong.

For example, there's a few fics-with-Rey below that have her as a sociable
lovable figure who trusts people easily, like, what??? No. She's been a
scavenger for fifteen years, she's canonically been betrayed by people she
thought were her peers fairly early on, she lived alone for ages, she was
exploited by adults around her until she got strong enough to fuck off on her
own, one of the only beings who halfway protected her and gave her the
opportunity to earn for the past ten years called the Empire on her (*this is
portrayed somewhat differently in the novelisations, but while the details
change a bit, the broad strokes remain the same*) at the drop of a hat. She's
not going to be a bubbly extrovert now. What is wrong with you.

- {SW} [Tomorrow (there'll be more of us)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5648131). Perfect. {3k words}
- {SW} [Coupling](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5494547). Cute in fanfic, but that's actually kinda shitty, Poe. {3k words}
- {SW} [Coming Together](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5553476). Okay, but it was done better by _Soul Scars_ above. {6k words}
- {SW} [better stand up straight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5481992). {3k words}
- {SW} [do not take love advice from sweary droids](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5754172). Apart from the misgendering of BB-8, good inspiration for irreverent droids. {2k words}
- {SW} [No other exile](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5491907). Kinda like my Phasma, except way less depth. {3k words}
- {SW} [In Good Hands](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5519408). Another sweary droid fic. {2k words}
- {SW} [Negotiator](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3578757). {31k words}
- {SW} Reprise: [I](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5201648), [II](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6689737), [III](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7997587). Mostly Obi-Wan, but also good insights into Jedi/Senate mechanics. {95k + 135k + 81k words atow}
- {SW} [to the sky without wings](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5609887). Now that was great, and also gave me lots of references for TFA voices. Lots of sadness, awesome diversity. Would love SW movies like that tbh (would also cry a lot so maybe not, but). {81k words}
- {SW} [we wore the jacket for the longest time](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5507783). Yeah, cute, but strong feeling of "not my Rey". Behaviour goes against the character. {4k + 2k words}
- {SW/Stargate} [A Star to Steer By](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3514793). _Really weird_ but makes sense. Clone/soldiering interactions/voices useful, although the nature of the crossover makes it tough to figure what I can safely import. Throwaway scene where Galaxy people are baffled by the Earthling concept of "only two genders" was a nice touch. {82k words atow}
- {SW} [Fundamental Force Carriers](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6252790). Very detailed, well explored. {88k words}
- {SW} Ouroboros: [Wake the Storm](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1080760), [Queen's Gambit](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1287526), plus [side](https://archiveofourown.org/works/2360390) [stories](https://archiveofourown.org/works/2405450). Series followed for upcoming third part. {75k + 355k + 15k + 15k words atow}
- {SW} [You Shall Become (me)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6113875). {25k words}
- {SW} Hindsight series: [Hindsight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1046282) and [Foresight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1167741). {58k + 160k words atow}
