2017-oct-10-monthly-update.md, before:

---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: October 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/sep/10/monthly-update"
---

## Fanfiction

As usual, only “good enough to be listed” newly-read fics are, well, listed, and
not everything I’ve read during the month. Especially recommended fics are in
**bold**.

 - {SW} **[firefly](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9164014)**.

   Sweary grumpy grampa-figure R2 is the best. {4k words}

 - {SW} [landfall](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5600413). {6k words}
 - {SW} [Balance series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/131172). {123k words atow}
 - {SW} [Two Hands to Make the World](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5687815). {27k words}
 - {SW} [when love explodes](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5793757). {1k words}
 - {SW} **[Precipice](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8270582)**. {114k words atow}

 - {SW} [per ardua ad astra](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9223013).

   If you thought Rogue One was tough, emotionally… maybe keep away.
   {67k words atow}

 - {SW} [Echoes of Mortis](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6082215). {67k words atow}
 - {SW} [I Can't Actually Post The Name of This Fic Here Because It Isn't Clean](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7348051). {7k words atow}
 - {SW} [Changeling Children](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6420604). {3k words}
 - {SW} [The Suns of Tatooine series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/345257). {85k words}

## Films

Same rules as the fanfic section.

 - [Pork Pie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pork_Pie_%28film%29).
   _Matt Murphy_ (Twice!)

Commit message:

[October 2017] Add blog writing goal

2017-oct-10-monthly-update.md, after:

---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: October 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/sep/10/monthly-update"
---

## Writing

### This blog

After doing some quick calculations, I found out that if I write about three
thousand more words in this blog before the end of the year, I'll have written
more in this blog this year than _all prior years combined_! Now that's a pretty
fun goal.

### Naema

//

## Fanfiction

As usual, only “good enough to be listed” newly-read fics are, well, listed, and
not everything I’ve read during the month. Especially recommended fics are in
**bold**.

 - {SW} **[firefly](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9164014)**.

   Sweary grumpy grampa-figure R2 is the best. {4k words}

 - {SW} [landfall](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5600413). {6k words}
 - {SW} [Balance series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/131172). {123k words atow}
 - {SW} [Two Hands to Make the World](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5687815). {27k words}
 - {SW} [when love explodes](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5793757). {1k words}
 - {SW} **[Precipice](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8270582)**. {114k words atow}

 - {SW} [per ardua ad astra](https://archiveofourown.org/works/9223013).

   If you thought Rogue One was tough, emotionally… maybe keep away.
   {67k words atow}

 - {SW} [Echoes of Mortis](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6082215). {67k words atow}
 - {SW} [I Can't Actually Post The Name of This Fic Here Because It Isn't Clean](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7348051). {7k words atow}
 - {SW} [Changeling Children](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6420604). {3k words}
 - {SW} [The Suns of Tatooine series](https://archiveofourown.org/series/345257). {85k words}

## Films

Same rules as the fanfic section.

 - [Pork Pie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pork_Pie_%28film%29).
   _Matt Murphy_ (Twice!)
