2017-aug-10-monthly-update.md, before:

---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: August 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/jul/10/monthly-update"
---

## Me and the dark always

I drafted a game called **Me and the dark always** that tries to go against the
general practice / consequence of current designs that the "looking" action in
games is free. It ended up being a slice-of-life game concept which deals with
tiredness through a few aspects.

I've got most of the mechanics drawn up, some basic art sketches, the story
elements for a limited demo, and some vision down. I have a rough idea of the
high-level implementation. I'm aiming to continue developing the idea _on paper_
until Yule, then trying for a first playable in early 2018.

## Naema

In early July, I got inspiration for writing some of the chapters that were
missing from the current draft.

## Fanfiction

As usual, only "good enough to be listed" newly-read fics are, well, listed, and
not everything I've read during the month. Especially recommended fics are in
**bold**.

 - {HP} [the family potter](https://archiveofourown.org/works/10566861). {10k words}

 - {HP} **[There May Be Some Collateral Damage](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5030443)**. {61k words}

Commit message:

[August 2017] More details for Naema

2017-aug-10-monthly-update.md, after:

---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: August 2017"
tags:
  - monthly-update
parents:
  - "2017/jul/10/monthly-update"
---

## Me and the dark always

I drafted a game called **Me and the dark always** that tries to go against the
general practice / consequence of current designs that the "looking" action in
games is free. It ended up being a slice-of-life game concept which deals with
tiredness through a few aspects.

I've got most of the mechanics drawn up, some basic art sketches, the story
elements for a limited demo, and some vision down. I have a rough idea of the
high-level implementation. I'm aiming to continue developing the idea _on paper_
until Yule, then trying for a first playable in early 2018.

## Naema

In early July, I got inspiration for writing some of the chapters that were
missing from the current draft. In mid-July I rewrote the entire outline and
added a lot more details, revealing that for consistency and pacing I had an
additional five chapters of material to write, and a bunch more things to add in
existing chapters.

Before, I estimated this work to go for about 20-25k words. It looks like it's
going more for the 50k mark. But it's a much better work than I ever imagined,
so that's ok.

Writing pace has picked up, and my goal (which I think is generous) is to start
publishing in December at the latest. I'll probably spend NaNoWriMo doing final
revisions and polish, if that's the case. If I finish earlier, who knows?

## Fanfiction

As usual, only "good enough to be listed" newly-read fics are, well, listed, and
not everything I've read during the month. Especially recommended fics are in
**bold**.

 - {HP} [the family potter](https://archiveofourown.org/works/10566861). {10k words}

 - {HP} **[There May Be Some Collateral Damage](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5030443)**. {61k words}
