2017-dec-31-yearly-summary.md, before:

---
title: A Year of Doing More
tags:
  - summary
  - yearly
---

## Conferences

- [NZ.js(con)](http://conference.javascript.org.nz/)
- [Play by Play](http://playbyplay.co.nz/)


## Books

### Bought

- [Dark Lord's Answer](https://www.amazon.com/Dark-Lords-Answer-Eliezer-Yudkowsky-ebook/dp/B01N9IPGWZ) {ebook}
- [Wearing The Cape](https://www.amazon.com/Wearing-Cape-Book-ebook/dp/B004XRCC1G) and sequels {ebook}
- [Universal Principles of Design](https://www.amazon.com/Universal-Principles-Design-Revised-Updated/dp/1592535879/)
- [The Design of Everyday Things](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0465050654/)
- [Barbarian Lord](https://www.amazon.com/Barbarian-Lord-Matt-Smith/dp/0547859066)
- [The Library of Fates](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32766747-the-library-of-fates)

### Backed

- [The Meek volume 1](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/shingworks/the-meek-volume-1)
- [Go Get a Roomie book 2](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/hiveworks/go-get-a-roomie-books-1-2-by-chloe-c/description)
- [Dates volume 2](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/marginspublishing/dates-an-anthology-of-queer-historical-fiction-vol)
- [Dumbing of Age book 6](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/326540223/dumbing-of-age-sixth-book-collection)


## Donations

All amounts in NZ dollars, even if the donation was in another currency.

### One time (done)

- ACLU: $70
- AO3: 69 US cents

### Ongoing throughout the year

- Patreon (various recipients): $94.66 * 2 + $51.66 + $48.66 * 9 ~= $678.92
- IHC: $300
- Unicef: $300
- The Green Party: $50

### One time (planned) (section should be entirely removed before year's end)

- Rainbow Youth
- Amnesty International
- Médecins Sans Frontières
- Reporteurs Sans Frontières
- CanTeen
- GiveWell's recommended mix (donated directly to GiveWell)

## Fanfiction

Words read per month, based on the monthly update posts. Thus the figure is
low-balled as the posts don't include fics I read but didn't like.

- December 2016 → January 2017: 5,399k
- January → February: 6,416k
- February → March: 2,964k
- March → April: 2,199k

Commit message:

Add City of Angles and The Rogue's Guide books

2017-dec-31-yearly-summary.md, after:

---
title: A Year of Doing More
tags:
  - summary
  - yearly
---

## Conferences

- [NZ.js(con)](http://conference.javascript.org.nz/)
- [Play by Play](http://playbyplay.co.nz/)


## Books

### Bought

- [Dark Lord's Answer](https://www.amazon.com/Dark-Lords-Answer-Eliezer-Yudkowsky-ebook/dp/B01N9IPGWZ) {ebook}
- [Wearing The Cape](https://www.amazon.com/Wearing-Cape-Book-ebook/dp/B004XRCC1G) and sequels {ebook}
- [Universal Principles of Design](https://www.amazon.com/Universal-Principles-Design-Revised-Updated/dp/1592535879/)
- [The Design of Everyday Things](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0465050654/)
- [Barbarian Lord](https://www.amazon.com/Barbarian-Lord-Matt-Smith/dp/0547859066)
- [The Library of Fates](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32766747-the-library-of-fates)
- [The Rogue's Guide To Life](https://www.createspace.com/7098811)
- [City of Angles: vol//001 Bedlam](https://www.createspace.com/4405318)
- [City of Angles: vol//002 Echoes](https://www.createspace.com/4706335)
- [City of Angles: vol//003 Lucidity](https://www.createspace.com/5212086)

### Backed

- [The Meek volume 1](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/shingworks/the-meek-volume-1)
- [Go Get a Roomie book 2](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/hiveworks/go-get-a-roomie-books-1-2-by-chloe-c/description)
- [Dates volume 2](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/marginspublishing/dates-an-anthology-of-queer-historical-fiction-vol)
- [Dumbing of Age book 6](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/326540223/dumbing-of-age-sixth-book-collection)


## Donations

All amounts in NZ dollars, even if the donation was in another currency.

### One time (done)

- ACLU: $70
- AO3: 69 US cents

### Ongoing throughout the year

- Patreon (various recipients): $94.66 * 2 + $51.66 + $48.66 * 9 ~= $678.92
- IHC: $300
- Unicef: $300
- The Green Party: $50

### One time (planned) (section should be entirely removed before year's end)

- Rainbow Youth
- Amnesty International
- Médecins Sans Frontières
- Reporteurs Sans Frontières
- CanTeen
- GiveWell's recommended mix (donated directly to GiveWell)

## Fanfiction

Words read per month, based on the monthly update posts. Thus the figure is
low-balled as the posts don't include fics I read but didn't like.

- December 2016 → January 2017: 5,399k
- January → February: 6,416k
- February → March: 2,964k
- March → April: 2,199k
