2018-sep-13-my-words.md, before:

---
date: 2018-09-13T20:45:32+12:00
title: My words
parent: 2017/dec/03/guy-adjacent
---

When I wrote [Guy-Adjacent](/2017/dec/03/guy-adjacent), I positioned myself
from a position of not wanting to impede on a space I didn't particularly think
I should occupy. Most of the sentiments expressed there remain the same: I am
neither oppressed nor disphoric, my mental health is... pretty good. However,
my approach to _words_ has evolved.

(As an aside, I also think that placing myself, an NT, healthy, non-disphoric
person in these spaces I belong to may indeed _help_ in “normalising” them.)

---

I'm very much not a label absolutist. Indeed, I now take great pain in not
using the term label here, or around this topic in general. I prefer saying
“**words**”. _Words_ is meant here as _words that are you_. It's not about
labelling, it's not about the outside world, it's not about absolutes, not
about purity.

_Words_ have two sides, and one constant:

 - Words are about how _you_ feel about them. You understand them in a certain
   way. Their etymology, their use in your personal history, the way they
   sound, their spelling, all these things are aspects of how they make you
   feel.

 - Words are about how _others_ understand them. They understand them in some
   certain ways. These might differ from the first. They might associate things
   to them. They might have a connotation. “Others” is a very wide group, and
   you should be careful both to exclude from your consideration those whose
   feelings you don't care for (because of hate, because of irrelevance,
   because of distance), and to include those whose feelings you don't
   necessarily consider outright but may have a claim against the word (because
   of kinship, because of culture, because of history).

 - Words _change_. Their spelling, their grammar, their meaning. Slow or fast.
   Sometimes both at once. Many times at different rates in different contexts.

All those things are equal influences, all as important as each other.

---

“**Guy-adjacent**” is still okay as a word. It's one way to describe me.

Here are others.

 - “**French**”. I was born there, I speak the language, I do identify with my
   people. In some ways, and not in others, but I do. I have an accent when I
   speak English. I have culture and mannerisms and ways of thought which are
   very French. It is absolutely a word of mine.

 - “**New Zealander**”. I am a citizen of this country. I love it. I chose it,
   in multiple ways. I don't really claim “Kiwi”, but I acknowledge it. I have
   an accent when I speak English. And French.

 - “**Solitaire**”. I like being alone. I'm okay with “introvert” from some
   people, especially other introverts, but I neither claim the word nor
   recognise it always. I recharge by staying away from people, and I shy away
   from too much socialities, but I do enjoy company, and I do go and brave
   crowds every so often. I get [limited panics] when I'm under too much
   exposure to others for too long: this is fairly frequent after conferences,
   or even during for long ones. I will happily not talk to anyone else for an
   entire week, if I'm given the opportunity (solo hiking trips being pretty
   much the only time nowadays).

 - “**Bisexual**”. With some preferences towards some aspects. I accept neither
   “pansexual” (too niche, I feel, and it feels _odd_ all the same) nor
   “sapiosexual” (connotations are strongly against, and I very much don't get
   horny only for _brains_ whether physical or metaphoric). I'd say that the
   _potential_ is there within the general population, and I do get attracted
   to some and not others, but the divide is neither on gender nor body traits.
   If I figure it out decisively one day I'll pick a better word.

 - “**Demi-romantic**”. Not “demi-sexual”. Not “aromantic”. I get crushes. I do
   fall in love. It doesn't happen always, but most importantly for this word:
   I don't feel like it's something missing. “Bachelor” is a word I'll
   acquiesce to, but won't use for myself unless it's right for the context. (I
   only fall within _some_ of its senses, anyway. My uncle was a bachelor until
   he found his wife; I will remain demi-romantic even if I do find
   companionship.)

 - “**Non-binary**”. I am that. See the first section of this post, and the
   previous article, for how I am _not_ like others who use that word. But I
   definitely am. Like the other below, I knew I was non-binary before I knew
   it was a thing.

 - “**Poly**”. Not out of the absolute _need_ to be with more than one person
   (see demi above), although that varies with context, but out of the complete
   lack of any feeling regarding being “mono”. I do not care for it, in all
   meanings of the phrase. That too, I knew about myself before I knew it had a
   word.

I'll edit if or when I find other words I feel as strongly about as I do these.

[limited panics]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limited_symptom_attack

Commit message:

[Words] Trying out pansexual over bisexual

2018-sep-13-my-words.md, after:

---
date: 2018-09-13T20:45:32+12:00
title: My words
parent: 2017/dec/03/guy-adjacent
---

When I wrote [Guy-Adjacent](/2017/dec/03/guy-adjacent), I positioned myself
from a position of not wanting to impede on a space I didn't particularly think
I should occupy. Most of the sentiments expressed there remain the same: I am
neither oppressed nor disphoric, my mental health is... pretty good. However,
my approach to _words_ has evolved.

(As an aside, I also think that placing myself, an NT, healthy, non-disphoric
person in these spaces I belong to may indeed _help_ in “normalising” them.)

---

I'm very much not a label absolutist. Indeed, I now take great pain in not
using the term label here, or around this topic in general. I prefer saying
“**words**”. _Words_ is meant here as _words that are you_. It's not about
labelling, it's not about the outside world, it's not about absolutes, not
about purity.

_Words_ have two sides, and one constant:

 - Words are about how _you_ feel about them. You understand them in a certain
   way. Their etymology, their use in your personal history, the way they
   sound, their spelling, all these things are aspects of how they make you
   feel.

 - Words are about how _others_ understand them. They understand them in some
   certain ways. These might differ from the first. They might associate things
   to them. They might have a connotation. “Others” is a very wide group, and
   you should be careful both to exclude from your consideration those whose
   feelings you don't care for (because of hate, because of irrelevance,
   because of distance), and to include those whose feelings you don't
   necessarily consider outright but may have a claim against the word (because
   of kinship, because of culture, because of history).

 - Words _change_. Their spelling, their grammar, their meaning. Slow or fast.
   Sometimes both at once. Many times at different rates in different contexts.

All those things are equal influences, all as important as each other.

---

“**Guy-adjacent**” is still somewhat okay as a word. It's one way to describe me.

Here are others.

 - “**French**”. I was born there, I speak the language, I do identify with my
   people. In some ways, and not in others, but I do. I have an accent when I
   speak English. I have culture and mannerisms and ways of thought which are
   very French. It is absolutely a word of mine.

 - “**New Zealander**”. I am a citizen of this country. I love it. I chose it,
   in multiple ways. I don't really claim “Kiwi”, but I acknowledge it. I have
   an accent when I speak English. And French.

 - “**Solitaire**”. I like being alone. I'm okay with “introvert” from some
   people, especially other introverts, but I neither claim the word nor
   recognise it always. I recharge by staying away from people, and I shy away
   from too much socialities, but I do enjoy company, and I do go and brave
   crowds every so often. I get [limited panics] when I'm under too much
   exposure to others for too long: this is fairly frequent after conferences,
   or even during for long ones. I will happily not talk to anyone else for an
   entire week, if I'm given the opportunity (solo hiking trips being pretty
   much the only time nowadays — social media counts as talking!).

 - “**Pansexual**”. With some preferences towards some aspects. Also “bisexual”
   which was my previous preference over “pan” — words and thoughts change! I
   reject “sapiosexual” (connotations are strongly against, and I very much
   don't get horny only for _brains_ whether physical or metaphoric). I'd say
   that the _potential_ is there within the general population, and I do get
   attracted to some and not others, but the divide is neither on gender nor body
   traits. If I figure it out decisively one day I'll pick a better word.

 - “**Demi-romantic**”. Not “demi-sexual”. Not “aromantic”. I get crushes. I do
   fall in love. It doesn't happen always, but most importantly for this word:
   I don't feel like it's something missing. “Bachelor” is a word I'll
   acquiesce to, but won't use for myself unless it's right for the context. (I
   only fall within _some_ of its senses, anyway. My uncle was a bachelor until
   he found his wife; I will remain demi-romantic even if I do find
   companionship.)

 - “**Non-binary**”. I am that. See the first section of this post, and the
   previous article, for how I am _not_ like some others who use that word.
   But I definitely am. Like the other below, I knew I was non-binary before
   I knew it was a thing.

 - “**Poly**”. Not out of the absolute _need_ to be with more than one person
   (see demi above), although that varies with context, but out of the complete
   lack of any feeling regarding being “mono”. I do not care for it, in all
   meanings of the phrase. That too, I knew about myself before I knew it had a
   word.

I'll edit if or when I find other words I feel as strongly about as I do these.

[limited panics]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limited_symptom_attack
