2018-jan-03-flexible-curry.md, before:

---
# vim: tw=80
date: 2018-01-03T20:19:47+13:00
title: Flexible curry
tags:
   - recipe
---

This is the general recipe of my curry.

I don't actually refer to a recipe when I make it, and I vary things a lot
depending on what I want to put in it, how much time I have, how I feel about
it, etc. So this is my attempt at describing a "flexible" recipe, that can be
used to make curry in a similar manner, but isn't a list of steps.

As such, there's no ingredient list up-front, and no precise cooking/preparation
times. Read through it all once, then make your own!


## The meat

That's not necessarily actual meat. It's the main ingredient. It can be a
vegetable. The only time this section doesn't apply is when doing egg curry, but
you'll need a different recipe for that.

### Veggies

If using a vegetable, I usually go with long-to-cook stuff. Pumpkin, courgette,
all manners of squash, sometimes even potato and other tubers although these
need longer cook times so be aware.

Prepare (wash, peel, gut) as necessary, then cut in large pieces (3–4 cm wide).

Optionally fry for a few minutes, then remove.

### Chicken

In a pan, brown both sides about 3 minutes each. If you have a good non-stick
pan or wok, you can put it straight in, without adding oil — the meat contains
enough fat to fry itself. Otherwise, use some kind of cooking oil. I generally
go for olive or avocado, but coconut oil can be a good choice as well.

### Other meat

Dice (or use diced or "stir-fry" cuts), then brown. Do as with chicken for
pan/oil... just remember to adjust for how lean the meat is.

### Mince, fish, seafood

I don't recommend mince, but you can try if you feel up to it.

I haven't tried fish or seafood curry.

### Eggs

As mentioned above, don't use this recipe. There's delicious ways to do egg
curry, but this isn't it.


## Spice preparation

While the meat is cooking (if using a good non-stick pan) or **before** (if not,
as then you'll need to stir to keep it from sticking), prepare your spices.

> "Curry powder" is actually already a mix of spices, all powered. It's got
> turmeric, chili, ginger, cumin, coriander, cardamom, cinnamon, clove, peppers,
> and various others. In New Zealand it comes in two or three mixes:
> "supermarket", which is _okay_, "english" or "mild", which is what I use,
> found at smaller grocers, and "garam masala" or "indian" or "strong", which is
> also found at smaller grocers and at asian/indian grocers.
>
> You _can_ make your curry "from first principles" i.e. without using "curry
> powder" at all, and while that's a cool project and fun to experiment with, it
> goes a bit beyond the scope of this recipe.

In any case, you'll need, at minimum:

 - Curry powder
 - Additional chilis (whole or processed)
 - White vinegar
 - Cumin (whole)
 - Cloves

and if you can (in decreasing order of necessity):

 - Paprika
 - Turmeric
 - Ginger (whole or powder)
 - Cinnamon (pieces or powder)
 - Whatever else you might feel like. Try to stick with oriental spices, but of
   course you can experiment.

You'll need to prepare two separate mixes:

### Spice sand or paste

Prepare the main spice body by mixing:

 - 2–3 teaspoons of curry powder
 - 1 teaspoon of paprika (if you have it)
 - 1 teaspoon of turmeric (if you have it)
 - Some additional chili, cut up in tiny pieces. Dosing chili from whole peppers
   is more about experience; if you're not sure, start with half a pepper and
   omit the seeds.

Then add 1 tablespoon of white vinegar. Stir until you have a coarse sand:
granules of spice up to half a cm wide. If you've added too much vinegar, that
might be a thick paste instead — that's fine, but is less handleable than the
sand. If you've added too little, you'll have a lot of fine powder still — add
more in this case.

> The reason I prefer to make a coarse sand like that rather than a paste or
> leaving the powder alone is

Leave aside.

### Whole spices or pieces

Get about a teaspoon of cumin and three cloves.

If you have them / feel like it, add a 3–5cm piece of cinnamon, and slice off a
little of the ginger.

Also leave aside.


## Spice cooking

When the meat is done, take it out of the pan, **leaving the fat**. Place it on
a plate and cover it.

Toss the whole/pieces spice mix in, trying for an even distribution instead of a
bit clump. Don't stir: the spices will stick to your spoon instead of staying
where they should.

Leave to fry for about 30s to a minute. The spices shouldn't get burned. You
should be able to smell the cloves or the cinnamon wafting from the pan.

Then add the spice sand/paste. Leave for five seconds, then stir; try to spread
them out as with the previous mix. If you're using a non-stick pan, you can
leave them to fry for longer, but aim for about 30s.

During that time, fill up the small bowl you've used to mix the main body of
spices with about a third of a cup of water. The small bowls I use hold pretty
much exactly that, but that may not be your case.

Then fill up a glass full of water.

(If you want and have some, you can add to it a cube of chicken/veggie stock.)

When the 30s from cooking the main spices are done, pour the small bowl over.
The water should immediately start to boil. Leave for about 30s, or just before
the water is all gone (don't let it boil dry!).

Then add the glass of water.

Then add the meat.

Then add more water until the meat is _almost_ covered. Or, if it's already
covered, add another glass of water.

Cover, reduce heat, leave to simmer.


## Extra veggies

(This says "extra" but that does not mean this is optional. A curry with just
meat and sauce is... not great. It can work if that's all you have.)

Now's the time to prepare whatever other veggies you have. It needs to be
something that cooks moderately quickly. E.g. bell peppers, silverbeet (stalks
separated from leaves — the stalks take longer), eggplant, tomatoes, etc.

The last curry I made had two bell peppers (yellow and red), and 6 silverbeet.

Clean them, chop them up in small pieces.

Add in order of how long it takes to cook, leaving a minute or two between each,
and stirring after each.

For that curry I added the silverbeet stalks, then the peppers, then the leaves.


## Finishing

Taste, salt, retaste.

If you have yogurt, plain yogurt (greek-style yogurt works), add about half a
cup in a circle over the curry. It will cook and the simmering will gradually
mix it into the dish.

If needed, add water to ensure the curry doesn't run out. If you want a thicker
style of curry, you can omit that, but you'll have to make sure to watch over
the curry and stir occasionally so it doesn't burn.

If you have those extra spice powders mentioned above (cinnamon, ginger) or
others, add some on top. This is for late accents, so more than a pinch and less
than half a teaspoon.

Cover, reduce heat to minimum, let simmer for 10 minutes or until you're ready
to eat.

About ten minutes (or as needed by your method) before serving, prepare rice.


## How to go faster

The entire thing as described takes me about 45 minutes. But you can cut down
that time in various ways!

 - If using vegetables or lamb stir-fry as the main, you can skip the frying at
   the start. You can also do that for other meats, but lamb or vegs is where I
   think that's noticed or missed the least.

 - You can omit using whole spices entirely. Just make and cook the main spice
   body, and that's enough for a good quick curry. Don't skip cooking the
   spices, though.

 - You can omit using extra chili altogether. If you use strong garam masala,
   you might want to do that anyway.

 - You can prepare the main spice body in advance. That's probably the prime
   time-saving trick: take the same proportions, but multiply by some number.
   (Don't add the vinegar, obviously! Just make a dry powder.)

   **5×** the quantities given will fit in a small glass jar. Prepare it once at
   some point, close the jar air-tight, store in your pantry. Then use **2–3**
   heaped teaspoons to prepare a curry.

 - If you have all the extra veggies prepared in advance, you can just add them
   all at once, and stick the yogurt in there too. Stir well.

 - Instead of simmering at low heat for a longer time, you can cook at medium
   heat for about 5–10 minutes less. Just make sure the meat is cooked through.

With all that, mixed-and-matched based on what you feel like or have already,
you can throw something together in 10 minutes, and let cook for 15–20. Don't
forget making rice! (Or farfalle pasta, or semolina...)

Commit message:

Add explanation for spice sand

2018-jan-03-flexible-curry.md, after:

---
# vim: tw=80
date: 2018-01-03T20:19:47+13:00
title: Flexible curry
tags:
   - recipe
---

This is the general recipe of my curry.

I don't actually refer to a recipe when I make it, and I vary things a lot
depending on what I want to put in it, how much time I have, how I feel about
it, etc. So this is my attempt at describing a "flexible" recipe, that can be
used to make curry in a similar manner, but isn't a list of steps.

As such, there's no ingredient list up-front, and no precise cooking/preparation
times. Read through it all once, then make your own!


## The meat

That's not necessarily actual meat. It's the main ingredient. It can be a
vegetable. The only time this section doesn't apply is when doing egg curry, but
you'll need a different recipe for that.

### Veggies

If using a vegetable, I usually go with long-to-cook stuff. Pumpkin, courgette,
all manners of squash, sometimes even potato and other tubers although these
need longer cook times so be aware.

Prepare (wash, peel, gut) as necessary, then cut in large pieces (3–4 cm wide).

Optionally fry for a few minutes, then remove.

### Chicken

In a pan, brown both sides about 3 minutes each. If you have a good non-stick
pan or wok, you can put it straight in, without adding oil — the meat contains
enough fat to fry itself. Otherwise, use some kind of cooking oil. I generally
go for olive or avocado, but coconut oil can be a good choice as well.

### Other meat

Dice (or use diced or "stir-fry" cuts), then brown. Do as with chicken for
pan/oil... just remember to adjust for how lean the meat is.

### Mince, fish, seafood

I don't recommend mince, but you can try if you feel up to it.

I haven't tried fish or seafood curry.

### Eggs

As mentioned above, don't use this recipe. There's delicious ways to do egg
curry, but this isn't it.


## Spice preparation

While the meat is cooking (if using a good non-stick pan) or **before** (if not,
as then you'll need to stir to keep it from sticking), prepare your spices.

> "Curry powder" is actually already a mix of spices, all powered. It's got
> turmeric, chili, ginger, cumin, coriander, cardamom, cinnamon, clove, peppers,
> and various others. In New Zealand it comes in two or three mixes:
> "supermarket", which is _okay_, "english" or "mild", which is what I use,
> found at smaller grocers, and "garam masala" or "indian" or "strong", which is
> also found at smaller grocers and at asian/indian grocers.
>
> You _can_ make your curry "from first principles" i.e. without using "curry
> powder" at all, and while that's a cool project and fun to experiment with, it
> goes a bit beyond the scope of this recipe.

In any case, you'll need, at minimum:

 - Curry powder
 - Additional chilis (whole or processed)
 - White vinegar
 - Cumin (whole)
 - Cloves

and if you can (in decreasing order of necessity):

 - Paprika
 - Turmeric
 - Ginger (whole or powder)
 - Cinnamon (pieces or powder)
 - Whatever else you might feel like. Try to stick with oriental spices, but of
   course you can experiment.

You'll need to prepare two separate mixes:

### Spice sand or paste

Prepare the main spice body by mixing:

 - 2–3 teaspoons of curry powder
 - 1 teaspoon of paprika (if you have it)
 - 1 teaspoon of turmeric (if you have it)
 - Some additional chili, cut up in tiny pieces. Dosing chili from whole peppers
   is more about experience; if you're not sure, start with half a pepper and
   omit the seeds.

Then add 1 tablespoon of white vinegar. Stir until you have a coarse sand:
granules of spice up to half a cm wide. If you've added too much vinegar, that
might be a thick paste instead — that's fine, but is less handleable than the
sand. If you've added too little, you'll have a lot of fine powder still — add
more in this case.

> The reason I prefer to make a coarse sand like that rather than a paste or
> leaving the powder alone is that it reduces the surface area of the spices
> when initially cooking them. I've found that with a bit of inattention or too
> harsh a heating profile it's fairly easy to burn your spices — and then the
> only thing to do is to throw them away and start over.
>
> Also, a wetter paste will stick to the sides of the small bowl I prepare this
> sand in, which is harder to spoon/toss out in one go.
>
> Making a coarse sand means the spices are slightly less well fried, but it
> makes the critical part of the recipe much easier to handle.

Leave aside.

### Whole spices or pieces

Get about a teaspoon of cumin seeds and three cloves.

If you have them / feel like it, add a 3–5cm piece of cinnamon, and slice off a
little of the ginger.

Also leave aside.


## Spice cooking

When the meat is done, take it out of the pan, **leaving the fat**. Place it on
a plate and cover it.

Toss the whole/pieces spice mix in, trying for an even distribution instead of a
big clump. Don't stir: the spices will stick to your spoon instead of staying
where they should.

Leave to fry for about 30s to a minute. The spices shouldn't get burned. You
should be able to smell the cloves or the cinnamon wafting from the pan.

Then add the spice sand/paste. Leave for five seconds, then stir; try to spread
them out as with the previous mix. The spices should soak up the remaining fat.
If you're using a non-stick pan, you can leave them to fry for longer, but aim
for about 30s.

During that time, fill up the small bowl you've used to mix the main body of
spices with about a third of a cup of water. The small bowls I use hold pretty
much exactly that, but that may not be your case.

Then fill up a glass full of water.

(If you want and have some, you can add to it a cube of chicken/veggie stock.)

When the 30s from cooking the main spices are done, pour the small bowl over.
The water should immediately start to boil. Leave for about 30s, or just before
the water is all gone (don't let it boil dry!).

Then add the glass of water.

Then add the meat.

Then add more water until the meat is _almost_ covered. Or, if it's already
covered, add another glass of water.

Cover, reduce heat, leave to simmer.


## Extra veggies

(This says "extra" but that does not mean this is optional. A curry with just
meat and sauce is... not great. It can work if that's all you have.)

Now's the time to prepare whatever other veggies you have. It needs to be
something that cooks moderately quickly. E.g. bell peppers, silverbeet (stalks
separated from leaves — the stalks take longer), eggplant, tomatoes, etc.

The last curry I made had two bell peppers (yellow and red), and 6 silverbeet.

Clean them, chop them up in small pieces.

Add in order of how long it takes to cook, leaving a minute or two between each,
and stirring after each.

For that curry I added the silverbeet stalks, then the peppers, then the leaves.


## Finishing

Taste, salt, retaste.

If you have yogurt, plain yogurt (greek-style yogurt works), add about half a
cup in a circle over the curry. It will cook and the simmering will gradually
mix it into the dish.

If needed, add water to ensure the curry doesn't run out. If you want a thicker
style of curry, you can omit that, but you'll have to make sure to watch over
the curry and stir occasionally so it doesn't burn.

If you have those extra spice powders mentioned above (cinnamon, ginger) or
others, add some on top. This is for late accents, so more than a pinch and less
than half a teaspoon.

Cover, reduce heat to minimum, let simmer for 10 minutes or until you're ready
to eat.

About ten minutes (or as needed by your method) before serving, prepare rice.


## How to go faster

The entire thing as described takes me about 45 minutes. But you can cut down
that time in various ways!

 - If using vegetables or lamb stir-fry as the main, you can skip the frying at
   the start. You can also do that for other meats, but lamb or vegs is where I
   think that's noticed or missed the least.

 - You can omit using whole spices entirely. Just make and cook the main spice
   body, and that's enough for a good quick curry. Don't skip cooking the
   spices, though.

 - You can omit using extra chili altogether. If you use strong garam masala,
   you might want to do that anyway.

 - You can prepare the main spice body in advance. That's probably the prime
   time-saving trick: take the same proportions, but multiply by some number.
   (Don't add the vinegar, obviously! Just make a dry powder.)

   **5×** the quantities given will fit in a small glass jar. Prepare it once at
   some point, close the jar air-tight, store in your pantry. Then use **2–3**
   heaped teaspoons to prepare a curry.

 - If you have all the extra veggies prepared in advance, you can just add them
   all at once, and stick the yogurt in there too. Stir well.

 - Instead of simmering at low heat for a longer time, you can cook at medium
   heat for about 5–10 minutes less. Just make sure the meat is cooked through.

With all that, mixed-and-matched based on what you feel like or have already,
you can throw something together in 10 minutes, and let cook for 15–20. Don't
forget making rice! (Or farfalle pasta, or semolina...)
