2020-jun-23-check-all-applicable-labels.md, before:

---
# vim: tw=100
date: 2020-06-23T11:23:02+12:00
title: Check all applicable labels
parents:
   - 2017/dec/03/guy-adjacent
   - 2018/sep/13/my-words
---

This is the third in a series of posts going back to 2017 where I attempt to describe the labels
that apply to me. The first, “Guy-Adjacent”, I have since unpublished as I stopped thinking it
represented me sometime last year and I didn't want it up anymore, even though I know some people
liked it and resonated with some of the things in it. It's still somewhere in the git history, of
course.

The second, “My words”, will also probably disappear at some point, unless I find a way to mark
posts as “deprecated” that leaves me satisfied enough that I can bear to leave it up for archival
and historical sake.

---

In the preface of “My words,” I self-describe as neither being oppressed nor dysphoric, having
pretty good mental health, being NT, being healthy.

That is, to a certain extent, still true. It is also not completely accurate, and I have come to
realise, _wasn't_ even when I wrote the previous post. Self-discovery is a thing. Cease of denial is
also a thing.

I am not NT (neurotypical). I, however, feel quite inappropriate in claiming the ND (neurodivergent)
label. I don't feel like I belong in either category, which could be anniying if I cared a lot about
categories or labels, but I don't really. I'm not presently interested in getting diagnosed in any
particular direction, either. But I do recognise I am not NT, and that's a step. I think.

I am not the picture of health. I have an invisible, undiagnosed chronic illness or condition, which
after much questioning, sounds pretty similar to, if an incredibly mild version of, fibro. But maybe
I think that because several friends _do_ have diagnosed fibro, and I recognise myself in my
friends. I would never want to make their struggles and hardship about me, though, so I'm not going
to associate (beyond this post) to the condition. I'm also very wary of something that sounds very
much like a general “we have no idea, let's describe the symptoms and call it a thing” which I'm
sure is helpful from a medical and also community point of view, but is super despairing from the
perspective of someone wondering about what they have and if it's ever fixable and with a dislike of
doctors. I probably need therapy. And medical care. I don't know if I'll ever work up the nerve to
push past my past experiences and get there, which sounds very silly because I KNOW I HAVE THE
PROBLEM, WHY WON'T I DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.

Speaking of mental health, I don't have impostor syndrome anymore. Wooo. It only took several years.
I still have a latent fear of rejection. But I'm pretty confident in my skills now, and most
importantly, I'm pretty confident in the skills I _don't_ have. I think that helps tremendously,
from a privileged position, to admit to myself this vulnerability or ‘weakness’.

---

But enough about health. One other very important change from the previous post is to stop trying to
avoid the word “label.” I will never like it much, but in the last post I made a rather obvious
mistake, in that I described that “words” are about communication, and failed to realise that the
word “label” is also about communication. “Words” is very unspecific. “Labels” might feel icky and
have interpretations I'd rather avoid, but it certainly has specific _shared_ meaning, and that
helps tremendously in communicating what I mean.

So the specific things I said in the previous post are still true: labels are for me, labels are for
you, labels change, labels are not absolute. Labels are useful to communicate along a shared
understanding, but it's still extremely important to me that labels are only about this
communication and sharing, and are not utterly accurate, finite, bounded, prescriptive descriptions
of me and who I am.

Let's get the easy stuff out of the way: I am **French**, I am **Pákehá**, a **New Zealander**,
sometimes a **kiwi** depending on context. I am technically European, but don't really have it as an
identity, and certainly do not feel like an NZ European, whatever that means. I am European in an
Europe context, but not in an Aotearoa context.

I am kind of an introvert, but still neither like the word nor the implied dichotomy. I'll claim
**solitaire**, not the card game (I like French tarot, if you must know), but I prefer avoiding
crowds and large social occasions. I've tried, I've been pushed this way, that way... doesn't work.

I am **gendermeh with boy flavour**. I actively dislike “guy” as a gendered marker and as a group
noun, but as a general address I'm not bothered. I don't give a fuck about masculinity, or feminity
for that matter. I'm very happy being me, and everything else can go. I am technically
**non-binary**, and will claim that label, but getting increasingly disillusioned with the discourse
around it; specifically, I feel that making it a sort of “third gender” is very reductive and misses
the entire point. I neither have a strong gender identity, nor care to describe it. To make a
programming joke: I am both weakly gendered and statically gendered, but I don't fit in the type
system.

I am **cis** in that I am not trans. That's pretty simple. I don't strongly identify _as_ cis,
but I am also _not_ trans, and the least I can do for that community is claim this, in support.

Sexuality-wise, I'll still claim both bisexuality and pansexuality, leaning towards one or
the other depending on context. But I'm not sexual or romantic enough to really identify with any
particular label. I'm not ace, and I'm not aro, but I'm not very ro either. I am neither poly nor
mono amorous, but I'll go with poly for lack of anything better.

This is roughly in the order I care about. And that's pretty much it.

Commit message:

[Labels] Actually old posts are not unpublished

2020-jun-23-check-all-applicable-labels.md, after:

---
# vim: tw=100
date: 2020-06-23T11:23:02+12:00
title: Check all applicable labels
parents:
   - 2017/dec/03/guy-adjacent
   - 2018/sep/13/my-words
---

This is the third in a series of posts going back to 2017 where I attempt to describe the labels
that apply to me. The first, “Guy-Adjacent”, I know some people liked a lot and resonated with some
of the things in it, but it doesn't match me _at all_ anymore. It's there, though.

---

In the preface of “My words,” I self-describe as neither being oppressed nor dysphoric, having
pretty good mental health, being NT, being healthy.

That is, to a certain extent, still true. It is also not completely accurate, and I have come to
realise, _wasn't_ even when I wrote the previous post. Self-discovery is a thing. Cease of denial is
also a thing.

I am not NT (neurotypical). I, however, feel quite inappropriate in claiming the ND (neurodivergent)
label. I don't feel like I belong in either category, which could be anniying if I cared a lot about
categories or labels, but I don't really. I'm not presently interested in getting diagnosed in any
particular direction, either. But I do recognise I am not NT, and that's a step. I think.

I am not the picture of health. I have an invisible, undiagnosed chronic illness or condition, which
after much questioning, sounds pretty similar to, if an incredibly mild version of, fibro. But maybe
I think that because several friends _do_ have diagnosed fibro, and I recognise myself in my
friends. I would never want to make their struggles and hardship about me, though, so I'm not going
to associate (beyond this post) to the condition. I'm also very wary of something that sounds very
much like a general “we have no idea, let's describe the symptoms and call it a thing” which I'm
sure is helpful from a medical and also community point of view, but is super despairing from the
perspective of someone wondering about what they have and if it's ever fixable and with a dislike of
doctors. I probably need therapy. And medical care. I don't know if I'll ever work up the nerve to
push past my past experiences and get there, which sounds very silly because I KNOW I HAVE THE
PROBLEM, WHY WON'T I DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.

Speaking of mental health, I don't have impostor syndrome anymore. Wooo. It only took several years.
I still have a latent fear of rejection. But I'm pretty confident in my skills now, and most
importantly, I'm pretty confident in the skills I _don't_ have. I think that helps tremendously,
from a privileged position, to admit to myself this vulnerability or ‘weakness’.

---

But enough about health. One other very important change from the previous post is to stop trying to
avoid the word “label.” I will never like it much, but in the last post I made a rather obvious
mistake, in that I described that “words” are about communication, and failed to realise that the
word “label” is also about communication. “Words” is very unspecific. “Labels” might feel icky and
have interpretations I'd rather avoid, but it certainly has specific _shared_ meaning, and that
helps tremendously in communicating what I mean.

So the specific things I said in the previous post are still true: labels are for me, labels are for
you, labels change, labels are not absolute. Labels are useful to communicate along a shared
understanding, but it's still extremely important to me that labels are only about this
communication and sharing, and are not utterly accurate, finite, bounded, prescriptive descriptions
of me and who I am.

Let's get the easy stuff out of the way: I am **French**, I am **Pákehá**, a **New Zealander**,
sometimes a **kiwi** depending on context. I am technically European, but don't really have it as an
identity, and certainly do not feel like an NZ European, whatever that means. I am European in an
Europe context, but not in an Aotearoa context.

I am kind of an introvert, but still neither like the word nor the implied dichotomy. I'll claim
**solitaire**, not the card game (I like French tarot, if you must know), but I prefer avoiding
crowds and large social occasions. I've tried, I've been pushed this way, that way... doesn't work.

I am **gendermeh with boy flavour**. I actively dislike “guy” as a gendered marker and as a group
noun, but as a general address I'm not bothered. I don't give a fuck about masculinity, or feminity
for that matter. I'm very happy being me, and everything else can go. I am technically
**non-binary**, and will claim that label, but getting increasingly disillusioned with the discourse
around it; specifically, I feel that making it a sort of “third gender” is very reductive and misses
the entire point. I neither have a strong gender identity, nor care to describe it. To make a
programming joke: I am both weakly gendered and statically gendered, but I don't fit in the type
system.

I am **cis** in that I am not trans. That's pretty simple. I don't strongly identify _as_ cis,
but I am also _not_ trans, and the least I can do for that community is claim this, in support.

Sexuality-wise, I'll still claim both bisexuality and pansexuality, leaning towards one or
the other depending on context. But I'm not sexual or romantic enough to really identify with any
particular label. I'm not ace, and I'm not aro, but I'm not very ro either. I am neither poly nor
mono amorous, but I'll go with poly for lack of anything better.

This is roughly in the order I care about. And that's pretty much it.
