# July 2016

For the past two months and a few weeks, I had given myself the challenge to
read all fics on [this list of Harry Potter fanfics][hplist], provided they met
my criteria and I hadn't already read them, of course. My criteria went thus:

1. **The fic has to be complete, unless it was updated recently.** That was to
   avoid abandoned fics. I was in this for many reasons, one of which was the
   pleasure I get from reading good fics, and after the first few abandoned
   fics I decided I couldn't bear the disappointment anymore. If I had been
   reading just a few of them, maybe I would have; but this was a hundred
   fairly long fanfics — I couldn't cope with potentially dozens of unfinished
   plots, of having to leave characters I had gotten attached to without ever a
   chance of seeing the conclusion of their story.

2. **The fic has to be good, fast.** I set a hard limit at five chapters before
   I would give up. I don't think I ever hit it. This was a list of the _top_
   100 fanfics, so not many were truly bad, but those that were clearly
   announced themselves.

3. **The fic has to be in English.** Obviously, if I can't read it… Nevermind
   that I can read French fluently, I don't particularly _like_ reading fanfics
   in French. I also don't like reading programming documentation in French,
   and when I communicate with French developers, it is most often in English.
   This is a personal thing. Only one fic hit that rule, but I had made it in
   advance as I knew it was a possibility.

4. **No Dramione.** As in, the Draco/Hermione romantic relationship pairing.
   This was more subtle than that: with very few exceptions, I outright ignored
   all fanfics that kept pretty much everything the same, but then forced the
   characters into the ship. I don't mind when Dramione, or something near it,
   actually happens organically, as a true part of the fic.

5. **No sanctimonious religious bullshit.** If you think atheists don't
   actually have morals because morals are exclusive to people who believe in a
   giant cuddly Zeus lookalike who loves everyone so much he has them kill each
   other for no fucking reason floating in the sky… yeah, not a fan. Or,
   actually, as long as you keep that shit to yourself, all good. But don't put
   it in your fanfic like you're a preacher yelling at the gay kids that
   they're all going to hell because, y'know, only straight love is allowed
   past the gates of Paradise. There are fics like that in the list. Fuck 'em.

6. **In fact, no bigotry.** That's an interestion criterion in a verse that has
   a lot of the plot and underlying tensions about blood bigotry. But there is
   a vast difference between bigotry, of any kind, being _explored_ in the text
   and the author trying to _push_ their own bigotry through fanfic. There are
   two very blatant opposites in this regard in the list: one had a protagonist
   and winning side and even the losing side, in parts, be very much convinced
   and fervent and _true_ in their belief that Muggles were vermin… but the
   author wasn't a bigot. Or if they were, by some turn of luck, their fic at
   least didn't read like that. It read like a well-crafted exploration of a
   concept, with realistic characters who were strong in their beliefs, even
   though these were objectionable and horrible and wrong, and similarly for
   the other side. The _other_ fic… was very much racist. The characters on
   the "wrong" side of the issue (according to the author) were weak and their
   personalities were systematically twisted to fit the narrative; while the
   bigoted rhetoric was dripping from even the narrator's parts, not just the
   characters' thoughts. There was, totally unsurprisingly, also classic skin
   and ethnic racism, and homo/trans-phobias. A smorgasbord of barely-subtle
   hate delivered in the wrappings and trappings of a universe I love. It's a
   bitter experience.

Entries I found deserving were listed publicly on [my Pinboard], along with
quick commentary. I tried to keep the comments spoiler-free in general, but
of course that's difficult to do in this context.

I estimated the total amount of prose I'd read, just counting those HP fanfics,
at 15-20 million words. But who's counting?

---

Now, after a suitably long (ha ha, who am I kidding, I like fanfic too much to
leave it for long) break, I am starting the very same thing with the [Naruto
list], from the same source. Same criteria, except of course the Dramione
clause — I think the Naruto verse doesn't really have such a contentious
pairing. Naruto/Orochimaru comes to mind, but is not really any different from
Harry/Voldemort, and there are good fanfics with that. I think perhaps a
Mizuki/Naruto ship would qualify. One difference between the two verses is that
shinobi have little compunction against killing their foe, or dying trying,
which means that if two people who hate each other meet, it often ends up
bloody rather than them not being able to do much other than shouting at each
other or bullying them, and potentially-fatal encounters are not very conducive
to romance, of any kind. This isn't Hollywood, kids, you're not going to have
people who _say_ they hate each other fuck each other silly after five minutes
on screen because of \*hand waving\* pent-up feelings and borderline porn.

We'll see what comes of it.

[hplist]: https://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-FFN-Graphs-Vis/pagerank/hp.html
[my Pinboard]: https://pinboard.in/u:passcod
[Naruto list]: https://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-FFN-Graphs-Vis/pagerank/naruto.html
