# Regulus (notes and author commentary)

The story of the narrator starts one or two centuries beyond our present time.
It is in accordance of my own beliefs that this kind of technology (to be able
to live a long time, if not forever, and to have decent space travel methods,
to start with) will be available and ready in our world, in reality, at most
around this kind of timeframe. From there, the narrator says they wasted a
century before getting to work, and that this note was written after “three
score centuries” or 6000 years, have passed. So the story begins at least after
8316 CE. The last note puts it at 8570 CE, but durations are purposefully left
fuzzy to allow for wording and the difficulty to measure time accurately over
space travel, FTL, and times beyond anything we, humans of the 21st century,
can reasonably imagine.

The story for the “reader,” who is not the reader of this short, but a
character named Otto who finds this note and then begins a search for the
narrator (presumably to tell them how Earth is?), begins in 9387 CE. The search
lasts 200 years, during which the narrator leads Otto on a merry chase of
stashes of research and notes across the Universe. We, the reader of the short,
only get to read a few of the notes, as hinted in the Nyctimene entry;
furthermore, there are also the stacks of research results and notes provided
along each entry; it would not be realistic for just those few clues contained
in the entries to be sufficient to find the next one. But those ones put
together have an interesting thread.

The Sechura desert is better known as the place where the Nazca lines are. The
Owlman is a Nazca figure representing a person with an owl’s face, arm raised up.

ATHENA is an actual X-Ray space telescope that is being built and will be
launched in a few years. ATHENA ΑΘΕ is probably one of its far, far successor.
This is happening 62–72 centuries in the future, after all. The ATHENA
telescope, ours, is going to be in L2 orbit; obviously this latter one, version
ΑΘΕ, stayed there, too. “ΑΘΕ” was an inscription on Athenian drachmas in
Ancient Greece, accompanied by a depiction of an owl.

The Phæthontis quadrangle is an area of Mars. Phaeton was a demigod who, one
day, drove the Sun’s carriage across the skies. “as dusk falls” is a reference
to the philosopher Hegel, who noted that “the owl of Minerva spreads its wings
only with the falling of the dusk.” Jiang Maze's name does not mean anything
and is not particularly significant; I pulled it from a box of tea and a poster
in my brother's room. Jiang is the family name. They use the pronoun “they” as
written in the text. Speaking of pronouns, notice how none of the characters
have a defined gender? The two names, Jiang and Otto, are neutral in this
regard. What gender did you give the characters, in your mind, while reading?

2150 Nyctimene is an asteroid (or minor planet, to be precise) in our solar
system, which I have dubbed Sol system in this short, discovered in 1977 bla
bla bla, none of that is relevant.

It’s located quite a ways from Earth, on an orbit inclined from the elliptic;
in my story, that provides a place that is accessible from other planets by
conventional propulsion, and then brings your vessel away from the influence
and business of the main plane of our system, so that you may engage your FTL
without causing nor getting undue interference.

To get back to the reference thread, Nyctimene was the daughter of Epopeus,
King of Lespos. Pursued by her father, she was rescued by Athena who turned her
into an owl, the very owl depicted on the drachmas.

The Owl of Athena, or the Owl of Minerva, as called by the Romans, was, by the
way, a symbol of knowledge and study.

Dagon is the name of an exoplanet orbiting the star Fomalhaut. It is situated
within an immense disc of debris floating around the star. Photos of that disc
of debris and the star show a distinctly fuzzier band: a dust ring. A view from
the side of that disc makes it look elliptical. All in all, from here, it kinda
looks like an eye, with a massive ball of fire in the middle of it. Fomalhaut
is about twice as large as the sun.

For the imagery, we have to go back to Epopeus: his name came from ἔποψ, better
known as the hoopoe, also nicknamed “the watcher.” Then we abandon Greek
mythology and go to the Persians, to whom the star was one of the four “Royal
stars,” and more precisely, was named Hastorang, of the winter solstice, “the
Watcher of the North.” (That’s not meant as a reference to a very popular TV
series of the moment, it’s entirely coincidence. I needed a star with a planet
that referred to the Nyctimene somehow, and I'd already made plans for two
other Royal stars.)

The planet is located near that dust ring mentioned before, which completes the
explanation for the Eye of Sauron mention. The shielded structure is because
the planet is moving through the disc of debris, impacts are frequent, so a
shield is necessary; and in turn, the shield would generate a sky of continuous
showers of burning meteor remains (the shield would destroy said meteors
instead of bouncing them or repelling them; I felt that was more realistic
compared to the fairly fantastic shields present in some other space-bound
sci-fi.) Finally, the planet has a very long orbit, spanning 2000 years.

Aldebaran is another of the Royal stars. Its current name means “The Follower,”
in Arabic. In Hindu, it is called “the mansion Rohini.” For the location in
this story, I went with a reference to the excellent BD “Les Mondes
d'Aldébaran,” which inspired me during my teenage years. One of the first
scenes in that story depicts a very long and beautiful beach, on the planet
Aldébaran-4, fourth and only livable planet in the Aldebaran system.

Antares is also a Royal star. It's a red supergiant nearly 900 times the size
of the sun. In Ancient Greece, the citadel or acropolis of a city-state
contained its royal palace. Antares has had various names in history, like:
“the Lord of the Seed,” “The King,” “Jyeshthā” (“the Eldest”). In Māori, it is
called “Rehua” and regarded as the chief of all the stars.

The title, Regulus, refers to the fourth and last Royal star, and perhaps the
next destination of the narrator, who knows.
