# April 2017

## Style

As you've probably noticed, I have refreshed the style of this website, as well
as the [root of my domain][root]. Goodbye monospaced font for everything! The
font is [Rawson Pro], by the ever-talented foundry **Latinotype**. And do check
out "Dark mode" by clicking the tiny little button labelled "Day" (or "Night")
in the bottom left corner.

[root]: https://passcod.name
[Rawson Pro]: https://www.myfonts.com/fonts/latinotype/rawson

## Rust

I wrote down [a massive design document][desdoc] for Notify's future, then
submitted it to the Rust Reddit community to hopefully get some comments and
reviews. The response was mostly positive, I think. However, actual
implementation will likely take a back seat for month to come, as I work on
other creative endeavours (see below).

I also published [version 4.0 of Cargo Watch][watch4], following a
near-complete rewrite and finally resolving several long-standing bugs and
feature requests, including one or two that had been open for more than a year!

I also upgraded Cargo Watch's supporting documents to [WeAllBehave][wab] and
[WeAllContribute][wac]'s outstanding templates, adapting them slightly so
they're more compatible with a Rust project.

[desdoc]: https://github.com/passcod/notify/issues/117
[watch4]: https://github.com/passcod/cargo-watch/releases/tag/v4.0.0
[wab]: https://github.com/WeAllJS/weallbehave
[wac]: https://github.com/WeAllJS/weallcontribute

## Open source and community

I'm hoping to ramp up my contribution to not only these two projects, but also
going to more events, and participating in the developer community. The last
two years have been _very quiet_ personally on that front, and I'd like to
remedy that.

## NZ.js

NZ.js was really good! One attendee made [a recap via tweets][nzjs-recap], and
[all the talks][nzjs-talks] are already up and available. If you only have a
little time, I recommend the opening keynote by @rockbot, the closing talk by
@prototypealex, but almost all the other talks were great too, of course.
Almost? Almost. There was definitely **one** that I didn't care for at all, and
maybe a couple others were merely _meh_. But overall? great stuff.

[nzjs-recap]: https://storify.com/knfrances/nz-js-con-wellington-march-2017
[nzjs-talks]: http://conference.javascript.org.nz/schedule/

## That Star Wars Fanfiction I'm Writing

(The working title was "Master Kylo", but things happened, and now Kylo Ren is a
minor character, so I'll have to pick a _new_ working title. I'm bad at these.)

I [tweeted an (intentionally) blurry photo][mk-timeline] of a timeline I put up
on my whiteboard. That was a progress shot: its current state is quite a bit
more complete, but I also can't show it because ***spoilers***.

Black is what I'm using from Canon, boxed names are characters or organisations
I care about (or for context), and correspond to lines showing, by their
proximity, where people/orgs are in relation to others. Purple is the Alternate
Universe parts of my fic, the things that are not Canon. Yes, this fic is
multiple-points-of-departure.

You can't see it because it's so faint, but there's also dates indicated. That
busy middle bit before the vertical line going upwards is the period between 5
and 28 ABY. The leftmost of the board starts at 19 BBY, i.e. the end of Episode
III, and the rightmost lines end around 34 ABY, i.e. Episode VII. I left a bit
of space after that for the actual action of my fic. It's not to scale! There's
some areas that are very expanded, and some where five years take as many
centimetres. I only have so much space.

I'm now aiming to have a solid detailed outline for Part 1 of the fic, covering
about 0 ABY until 33 ABY in various threads, as well as at least 15% (10-12k
words) of the material drafted out, for my birthday. That's in a month or so,
and I already have about 4k words written down as of publish of this update.

The fic has shifted focus a few times during the last few months, and now as it
approaches its final (for now) plan it's about the lives and events of several
characters in-between Episodes VI and VII. We'll see a little of Luke and Leia
and Han, but it's mostly about the Resistance and how it kept on fighting,
about a boy being kidnapped from a Sectors planet and finding a good head for
strategy and good companyâ€¦ only to lose it when his conscience calls him out,
leaving behind a troubled young man who has no idea what he'll become. It's
about an explorer keeping his faith even as he sees a dear friend withdraw from
the world (with good reason) and as he leaves a place that felt like home to
hide away, but who also cannot escape the call of discovery and curiosity. It's
about a mysterious voice speaking on old frequencies bringing hope and tales
and unlikely help. It's about a young woman in a hostile environment determined
to get out and make her mark on the world, and it's about another determined to
stay put and survive where she is. It's about the worlds continuing to turn
while you're looking away.

What's amusing is that the plot point that triggered the conception of this fic
is now a minor detail that will be used only two or three times. But it's
there, a reminder that even when you think you know how things work, they can
surprise you. That's what this detail is, and that's what this story is.

[mk-timeline]: https://twitter.com/passcod/status/843336749388447744

## Thoughts on Fanfiction

I wrote a little on [what I think fanfiction is about][thoughts].

[thoughts]: ../../../deprecated/unheld/a-thought-on-fanfiction.md
