# July 2017

## List

I watched [Neil Gaiman speaking to students][commencement-speech] last week, and
it reminded me that I did have specific things I've wanted to do forever. Unlike
Gaiman, though, I've never noted them anywhere, so I'll search my memories and
write them down here as I find them again:

 - I want to invent something.
 - I want to publish a scientific paper.
 - I want to forge a blade.
 - I want to travel to Antarctica.
 - I want to pilot a glider.
 - I want to learn a martial art.
 - I want to build a giant machine.
 - I want to live in a lighthouse for a bit.
 - I want to publish a novel.

Okay, so they're a bit more like dreams. Still, I think I could get to achieve
at least some of them in the next few decades!

[commencement-speech]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ikAb-NYkseI

## End of a job

This has been a very _very_ busy month, and absolutely exhausting. Due to the
large amounts of operational knowledge I had accumulated without opportunity to
pass it on at my last job, as well as no less than **three** last minute
large-scale migrations that I needed to be part of to ensure a smooth move (I
hope!), I spent my last month at McKay flat out trying to document and finish
everything right up to my last day.

I was very happy to be done with it all!

## Start of a new one

I started at Uber (not the taxi company) last week. It's going well! There's a
lot — and I do mean a _lot_ — of technical details which I'm going to have to
get my head around, including a whole bunch of protocols and acronyms I only
have a vague grasp on.

On a human level, there's two things I'm really happy about with this new job,
although it _is_ subject to confirmation as I work there longer.

Externally, it is astoundingly refreshing and comfortable to work with someone
who _knows their shit_, and makes similar jumps of thought when reasoning about
code and problems.

Internally, I am no longer stressed the fuck up and in _two days_ that has
had noticeable effects on my tiredness and well-being, despite technically
working longer hours. Also, I now have a flexible hour-long lunch, and holy shit
is this nice. It took me a bit to break the habit to have a fast lunch, but now
I take the entire hour to walk to the Town Basin (a kilometre away), have lunch
there, watching the boats and _passants_, and walk back. Awesome.

On a project level, I can't really say because I haven't seen enough yet, but
what little I _have_ leads me to believe that there is _so much fucking
potential_ and that while there will be some tedium as we work with a massive
codebase with a decade of history in its commits, there's many interesting
things to be done.

From the outset, I expect to stay at Uber for one or two years, and I very much
expect to leave the system in a better place. I'm excited about this!

## Much writing

I'm nearly finished with the full first draft of the first story in the "In The
Darkness of Dawn" universe Star Wars fanfic. This one is also canon-compliant,
ignoring some small references to future dawnverse stories, and stands fairly
well alone even if you've only seen the films.

Once done, I'll do one or two editing passes myself, before either publishing
outright or finding some advance/beta readers for more feedback.

As of yet, there is no title. The working title is **Naema**, from the second
main character and OC, but that might change before publication.
