# June 2017

## In the pale darkness of dawn

Did a slight rework of the story to have it stand as two distinct fics,
especially following my reading of [Vanity Fair's excellent Star Wars
cover][vanity-sw]. The first story centers around the Resistance, and has quick
but persistent mentions of the Saka (my main OC) story, which features a lot of
great worldbuilding but which I'll leave to the side for now. I don't want to
overwhelm the first fic by looking like a completely different universe from
the get go, even though I tie it in pretty strongly to various canon plot
points (and it's a really cool little world that I absolutely love writing).

The main fic starts around the same time the Aftermath novels do. It
invalidates a lot of what the latter Aftermath books plot out, especially on
the founding and role of the Resistance, but that's an AU for you.

Finding and writing Leia's voice and role is probably the hardest and I'm
pretty sure I haven't quite gotten there. Fortunately I've deliberately put her
back, away from the main storylines, from the very start. But she's still in a
lot of the in-universe plots, so she has to appear and she does affect
everything, so I can't just ignore her.

Luke is much easier, probably because there's a lot more freedom to write him
how I want him? There's a lot less canon material around Luke, especially the
newer stuff, and what's there is pretty straightforward. However, this fic
doesn't feature Luke front and centre either, so it's not too much of a worry
at this point.

As I commented to a colleague a few weeks back, I had to create a lot of OC
extras. There's just not enough non-humans and not enough non-males in
Rebellion and Alliance High Command, and that really sucks. It's not even
trying to maintain a balance or anything, it's that when I think up a scene I
place beings in it that are kind of a blob of "I want that kinda thing"
feelings. Then I flesh them out, at least to give them a name and a description
if the writing needs it, and to figure out logistics like who moves where and
what they're wearing and the movements they're going to make with their arms or
other appendages, plus the facial expressions, even down to the verbs I can use
to punctuate their dialogue.

But I don't like just pulling beings out of thin air, so I go look at the wiki
and the books I have and the canon ref sheets I made, and guess what, something
like 80% of the character pool is Human Male. Not only is that incredibly
boring, it clashes horribly with the scene I built up in my mind. Like, yeah,
there'll be a few, but it's not going to be 80%. It's worse for the gender
distribution; some pools of characters have a 95% or higher male content, which
is plain ridiculous. So I create OC extras. I'm constantly running out of
names, it's a real problem!

[vanity-sw]: http://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2017/05/star-wars-the-last-jedi-cover-portfolio

## A new project

I've been quietly designing, speccing out, and writing [a stack calculator in
the spirit of `dc`, but more legible][Stalc]. Instead of being character-based,
it's whitespace-separated. It has first-class support for a variety of number
formats, dates, times and durations, booleans, strings, comments. It's a simple
little language, too, so I'll get to experiment with all that a language is.

Right now I'm writing the parser, and writing out the bullet-point spec I
started with into a more precise form. It's not a toy, but it has no great
aspirations, either. It just wants to be a calculator.

[Stalc]: https://github.com/passcod/stalc

## A new job

I've successfully applied and interviewed for and obtained a brand new job at
another local tech company. I've been at [McKay] for over two and a half years,
and in that time it's grown, shrinked, evolved, and denatured. I really liked
the people there, but I've grown cynical about the company itself, and that's a
good sign as any that change is needed.

In three weeks I'll start at [Uber], no, not the taxi company. They're a little
ISP serving Northland and Whangarei since 2008. It's a completely new sector for
me, but I don't know much more than that just yet. To be discovered!

[McKay]: http://www.mckay.co.nz/
[Uber]: http://uber.co.nz/

## A new avatar

I commissioned [a new avatar][avatars] this month, by a young artist named
[Luke], whom I found via a recommendation / [Alice]'s timeline.

[avatars]: https://passcod.name/avatars/
[Luke]: https://twitter.com/LukrShiba
[Alice]: https://twitter.com/neakitten
