# October 2017

## Night-mode improvement

Got an idea as I was thinking about putting glow-in-the-dark stars up my
ceiling, and it turned out to be a great success at little effort! If you switch
this blog to Night mode by clicking the tiny button in the bottom left corner,
you'll see what I mean.

That was done by finding a high-res picture of the night sky, then modifying
curves to eliminate all the variation in black and dark blues, and converting
all black in alpha. Then some touch up work was done to eliminate as much as
possible blue and red halos around some galaxies that were visible on a white
background. Finally, I used GIMP's seamless tiling algorithm tool to generate
the tile and layered it using CSS.

## Writing

### This blog

After doing some quick calculations, I found out that if I write about three
thousand more words in this blog before the end of the year, I'll have written
more in this blog this year than _all prior years combined_! Now that's a pretty
fun goal.

I achieved this handily when I did experiments around [transcripts] later on.

[transcripts]: /tag/transcript

### Naema

Writing has been slower than usual, which is perhaps pushing back the end date.

I have been having difficulties reconciling Leia's character with how I portray
her in the one interaction that's really important in this fic, my plans for the
story warring with who she is verily. I think I've got it now, but Leia is
definitely the hardest character I've had to write about.

I've been writing and thinking a lot more about Thabeskan culture and history,
as that is an important part of the interactions between my two protagonists.
That may have caused a slight change of structure and that in turn may push back
completion, but oh well. So long as it improves the storyâ€¦

## Fatso

This month, [Fatso] also declared they were shutting down. Fatso has been a
stalwart of these past years at this house, and it brought us a vast and diverse
set of films even when we couldn't afford downloading or streaming movies in the
early times when the internet was capped and even slower than it is now. We'll
miss it, even though we weren't watching as many DVDs recently, having
diversified the sources of films we were getting. However, Fatso was the only
way to get non-mainstream or foreign films, especially French (with original
soundtrack) as well as many niche films from Latin America and the Middle East.
Those are lost to us for now, unless and until we find another way. So thank you
Fatso! We loved you.

[Fatso]: http://www.fatso.co.nz/

## Cogitare

After much gnashing of teeth (I swear _a lot_ when I'm coding), I've finally put
[Cogitare] together in a way that works decently well and looks good. It's
usable now, even though there are a number of issues with the UI that I want to
fix.

During the next week or two, I'm going to finish that, write an import + admin
interface, hook up the IRC bot, then prepare for NaNoWriMo by loading up a bunch
of prompts and seeds and deleting the awful from the ones I have currently.

[Cogitare]: https://cogitare.nz
