# April 2017

## Thoughts on Fanfiction (TODO fix link)

I wrote a little on [what I think fanfiction is about][thoughts].

[thoughts]: https://blog.passcod.name/2017/apr/01/a-thought-on-fanfiction

## Original Fiction

Those are original serial fiction I follow and have read one or more chapters
of, this month. Genre is in brackets.

 - {Superhero} [Tieshaunn](https://tieshaunn.wordpress.com).
 - {Renaissance Fantasy} [Twisted Cogs](https://twistedcogs.wordpress.com/).
 - {Superhero} [Super Powereds](http://www.drewhayesnovels.com/superpowereds/).
 - {Magic Fantasy} [Mother of Learning](https://www.fictionpress.com/s/2961893/1/Mother-of-Learning).
 - {Superhero} [Anathema](https://anathemaserial.wordpress.com/).
 - {Mystery} [Tourist](https://notsafforwork.com/tourist/).

I also read [Aftermath: Life Debt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Aftermath:_Life_Debt) and [Empire's End](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Aftermath:_Empire%27s_End). Hmmmph.

## Fanfiction

This month, taking a bit of a break, and only keeping up with stories I follow.
The ones listed below are not _all_ I follow, but those I started before
listing them in these Monthly Updates, and that I think deserve a mention.

 - {Pokémon} [The Origin of Species](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/9794740/1/Pokemon-The-Origin-of-Species).
 - {Pokémon} [The Line](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11273833/1/Pok%C3%A9mon-The-Line).
 - {HP} [In enemy waters](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11685990/1/In-enemy-waters).
 - {LotR} [The Shadow War](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/10853714/1/The-Shadow-War).
 - {Naruto} [A Drop of Poison](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/4573620/1/A-Drop-of-Poison).
 - {HP} [Hogwarts Battle School](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/8379655/1/Hogwarts-Battle-School).
 - {SW} [Contrasts](http://contrasts-comic.tumblr.com/). That's a fancomic!

I managed to read a few new stories after all:

 - {HP} **[Soul Scars](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11923792/1/Soul-Scars)**.

   Seemed creepy but the author is awesome so I read anyway… it's actually very
   cute and an excellent exploration of the concept, written in 21 stories each
   following a character. Very much recommended, and a short enough read to
   actually be doable when otherwise busy. {64k words}

 - {HP} [Safe Word is Devil's Snare](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8376331). This is lovely. Very NSFW. {96k words}
 - {HP} [Misplaced Moony](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8376253). {64k words atow}
 - {HP} [Amid the Chaos](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8375905). {22k words atow}
 - {HP} [Storm of Yesterday](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8850352). {130k words}
 - {HP} [The Reclamation of Black Magic](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8374798). {105k words atow}
 - {HP} [Arx Domus Nigrae](https://www.fanfiction.net/s/10506441/1/Arx-Domus-Nigrae). Recommended by ShayaLonnie, did not disappoint. {113k words atow}
 - {HP} [Nihil est ab Omni Parte Beatum](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5733457). {108k words}

And then I started earnestly into writing my fanfic, and predictably, I got to
reading lots more Star Wars fics. Official pretext for this is "gotta find
voices and get into the feel for writing my characters" but of course the plots
and cuties are why I stay.

But seriously, encountering characters I'm writing and have been thinking about
for the past few months in other fanfics is pretty cool. It really lets me
figure out the edges of my characters, and think about behaviour/personality
for more than just the obvious by comparing against what I'm reading. And when
something really clashes, I have to think and mentally point out details that
justify why I feel like the characterisation is wrong.

For example, there's a few fics-with-Rey below that have her as a sociable
lovable figure who trusts people easily, like, what??? No. She's been a
scavenger for fifteen years, she's canonically been betrayed by people she
thought were her peers fairly early on, she lived alone for ages, she was
exploited by adults around her until she got strong enough to fuck off on her
own, one of the only beings who halfway protected her and gave her the
opportunity to earn for the past ten years called the Empire on her (*this is
portrayed somewhat differently in the novelisations, but while the details
change a bit, the broad strokes remain the same*) at the drop of a hat. She's
not going to be a bubbly extrovert now. What is wrong with you.

 - {SW} [Tomorrow (there'll be more of us)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5648131). Perfect. {3k words}
 - {SW} [Coupling](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5494547). Cute in fanfic, but that's actually kinda shitty, Poe. {3k words}
 - {SW} [Coming Together](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5553476). Okay, but it was done better by _Soul Scars_ above. {6k words}
 - {SW} [better stand up straight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5481992). {3k words}
 - {SW} [do not take love advice from sweary droids](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5754172). Apart from the misgendering of BB-8, good inspiration for irreverent droids. {2k words}
 - {SW} [No other exile](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5491907). Kinda like my Phasma, except way less depth. {3k words}
 - {SW} [In Good Hands](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5519408). Another sweary droid fic. {2k words}
 - {SW} [Negotiator](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3578757). {31k words}
 - {SW} Reprise: [I](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5201648), [II](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6689737), [III](https://archiveofourown.org/works/7997587). Mostly Obi-Wan, but also good insights into Jedi/Senate mechanics. {95k + 135k + 81k words atow}

 - {SW} **[to the sky without wings](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5609887)**.

   Now that was great, and also gave me lots of references for TFA voices. Lots
   of sadness, awesome diversity. Would love SW movies like that tbh (would
   also cry a lot so maybe not, but). {81k words}

 - {SW} [we wore the jacket for the longest time](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5507783). Yeah, cute, but strong feeling of "not my Rey". Behaviour goes against the character. {4k + 2k words}
 - {SW} [some place to hide](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5512841). {2k words}

 - {SW/Stargate} [A Star to Steer By](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3514793).

   _Really weird_ but makes sense. Clone/soldiering interactions/voices useful,
   although the nature of the crossover makes it tough to figure what I can
   safely import. Throwaway scene where Galaxy people are baffled by the
   Earthling concept of "only two genders" was a nice touch. {82k words atow}

 - {SW} [Fundamental Force Carriers](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6252790). Very detailed, well explored. Has elements I deeply agree with. {88k words}
 - {SW} Ouroboros: [Wake the Storm](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1080760), [Queen's Gambit](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1287526), plus [side](https://archiveofourown.org/works/2360390) [stories](https://archiveofourown.org/works/2405450). Series followed for upcoming third part. {75k + 355k + 15k + 15k words atow}
 - {SW} [You Shall Become (me)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6113875). {25k words}
 - {SW} Hindsight series: [Hindsight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1046282) and [Foresight](https://archiveofourown.org/works/1167741). {58k + 160k words atow}
 - {SW} [The Story of Finn](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5594782). Lovely story, great reminder that Stormtroopers are People. {26k words}
 - {SW} [we'll look back on this road we're on](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5540198). Not enough Jess/Rey. {8k words}
 - {SW} [The Lightness of Feeling](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5552405). {5k words}
 - {SW} [Deviating Ventures](https://archiveofourown.org/works/3899560). {3k words}
 - {SW} [A Rose by Any Other Designation (Would Still Be Required to Pledge Loyalty to the First Order)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5790844). {1k words}
 - {SW} [one hell of a mess](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5585071) and [like dancing, like flying](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5690374) and [Love's not a competition (but I'm winning)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5827372). Hilarious and cute and gave me ideas for a scene! So awesome. {5k + 4k + 4k words}

 - {SW/SW Legends} **[i guess i'll know when i get there](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8910982)**.

   Gave me plenty of material, and is a great story besides. The mix of Rogue
   One and Legends tidbits is confusing at times. Recommend. {115k words atow}

