monthly-update/2018/apr-10.md, before:

---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: April 2018"
tags:
  - monthly-update
  - php
parents:
  - "2018/mar/10/monthly-update"
---

## April Fools

<a id=april-fools></a>

This year I did something of my own.

In early March, at work, while pairing, we typo'd PHP's `??` Null Coalesce
operator into `???`. That was pretty hilarious. We couldn't stop ourselves from
imagining what such a symbol could mean.

One idea stuck, as being both on point, completely overpowered, and yet utterly
practical. As April was coming up, I floated a ridiculous idea: what if we
proposed it for real?

Ultimately, work keeps us busy, so we don't really have time to spend on
frivolous bullshit like that. Instead, I quietly worked at it in spare hours.

As part of my initial research, I found that PHP has a fairly well-delimited
process for proposing changes, and it all starts with a posting on the mailing
list to gauge interest. I couldn't do that! It would ruin the surprise.

So I skipped that step, and wrote up a PHP RFC as seriously as I could. I
included motivations, discussions of why existing features weren't enough, use
cases, examples, sample code, comparisons to other languages.

I even checked out PHP's source and coded up a very nasty hack of an
implementation of the feature. And I added tests.

This was meant to be a complete joke, something that could not exist in a
thousand years, and yet I fell into my own trap. As I wrote it, as I described
it, as I defended it, I came to appreciate just how useful the feature might be.

I still don't think it will ever get accepted, and certainly not with its `???`
syntax. Even if I see many places I could use it, it's still very outlandish.

But for you, dear reader, if you haven't come here from the proposal itself, I
leave you with a proposal that captured my attention for the best part of a
month. Here is [`???`: The Exception Coalesce Operator][???].

[???]: https://github.com/passcod/rfc-exception-coalesce-operator

## Fanfiction

 - {HP} [the faintest, slimmest, wildest chance](https://archiveofourown.org/works/14016324). {3k words}
 - {HP} [The Night We Met](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13094601). {31k words atow}
 - {GoT} [Leave Out All The Rest](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13348173). {18k words atow}
 - {SW} [Always in Motion](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13820787). {5k words}
 - {Naruto} [Forever And A Bit](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11592624). {117k words atow}
 - {Fullmetal Alchemist} **[Clerical Errors](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13980036)**. {12k words atow}
 - {Naruto} [Hate To Love](https://archiveofourown.org/works/12109287). {19k words atow}
 - {Naruto} **[reverse](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5339486)**. {387k words}
 - {Naruto} **[Of Harrowed Hearts](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8211566)**. {187k words atow}

Commit message:

Add more details on why I didn't post to PHP mailing list as is procedure

monthly-update/2018/apr-10.md, after:

---
# vim: tw=80
title: "Monthly Update: April 2018"
tags:
  - monthly-update
  - php
parents:
  - "2018/mar/10/monthly-update"
---

<a id=april-fools></a>

## April Fools

This year I did something of my own.

In early March, at work, while pairing, we typo'd PHP's `??` Null Coalesce
operator into `???`. That was pretty hilarious. We couldn't stop ourselves from
imagining what such a symbol could mean.

One idea stuck, as being both on point, completely overpowered, and yet utterly
practical. As April was coming up, I floated a ridiculous idea: what if we
proposed it for real?

Ultimately, work keeps us busy, so we don't really have time to spend on
frivolous bullshit like that. Instead, I quietly worked at it in spare hours.

As part of my initial research, I found that PHP has a fairly well-delimited
process for proposing changes, and it all starts with a posting on the mailing
list to gauge interest. I couldn't do that! It wouldn't be an April Fools if I
had to disclose it prior to April. Also, I didn't think it would be nice to
annoy the PHP developers with this. People on Twitter (or Slack, or wherever you
came from) at least are _already_ wasting their time.

So I skipped that step, and wrote up a PHP RFC as seriously as I could. I
included motivations, discussions of why existing features weren't enough, use
cases, examples, sample code, comparisons to other languages.

I even checked out PHP's source and coded up a very nasty hack of an
implementation of the feature. And I added tests.

This was meant to be a complete joke, something that could not exist in a
thousand years, and yet I fell into my own trap. As I wrote it, as I described
it, as I defended it, I came to appreciate just how useful the feature might be.

I still don't think it will ever get accepted, and certainly not with its `???`
syntax. Even if I see many places I could use it, it's still very outlandish.

But for you, dear reader, if you haven't come here from the proposal itself, I
leave you with a proposal that captured my attention for the best part of a
month. Here is [`???`: The Exception Coalesce Operator][???].

[???]: https://github.com/passcod/rfc-exception-coalesce-operator

## Fanfiction

 - {HP} [the faintest, slimmest, wildest chance](https://archiveofourown.org/works/14016324). {3k words}
 - {HP} [The Night We Met](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13094601). {31k words atow}
 - {GoT} [Leave Out All The Rest](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13348173). {18k words atow}
 - {SW} [Always in Motion](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13820787). {5k words}
 - {Naruto} [Forever And A Bit](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11592624). {117k words atow}
 - {Fullmetal Alchemist} **[Clerical Errors](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13980036)**. {12k words atow}
 - {Naruto} [Hate To Love](https://archiveofourown.org/works/12109287). {19k words atow}
 - {Naruto} **[reverse](https://archiveofourown.org/works/5339486)**. {387k words}
 - {Naruto} **[Of Harrowed Hearts](https://archiveofourown.org/works/8211566)**. {187k words atow}
