# March 2019

## Keycasting

I have been spending most of the month [trying] to [cast a key] in epoxy. It's
an interesting project to be sure, even if I'm doubtful as to its actual
success. Learning lots, making mistakes, making discoveries.

[trying]: https://twitter.com/passcod/status/1106093907174027265
[cast a key]: https://twitter.com/passcod/status/1107512847821492225

## Housing

I also moved on the first of the month. I now live in a much larger place than
before, although still by my lonesome! (I'm not complaining, I like it, it's why
I chose it.) It's got no carpet anywhere, fake-wood laminate plank and dark tile
floors, two storeys, ample parking space, in the middle of town but also in the
middle of greenery (although none I have to tend to), and honestly I like it a
lot. The rent is a bit high, but it's not outrageous, either.

Consequently I've spent a while finding furniture and making things work. Stuff
is expensive! Sheesh. I did get some good deals, and with a bit of DIY and
low-key restoration I think I'll get a nice setup out of it all. And it keeps my
hands busy!

## Work

After 10 months of work we've finally released a new customer website. Won't
really say much about it here, but it's good to be done, even if we'll keep on
working on features. Relief and accomplishment.

We worked pretty hard to get it ready and launched before April, as no-one wants
to seriously release a new product around April Fools! Google can do its thing,
we'll keep to not trying to surprise and upset our customers (yes I'm still
bitter about the Inbox thing).

## Notify

I've been preparing for a breaking release of the main branch. In the last few
days I've finalised the feature list of what I want in there; I'm taking the
opportunity to bundle a bunch of changes into it. I'm aiming for a mid-April
release, but plans do go awry around this project, so who knows.

This will be a good way to test how fast the adoption is. I'm expecting a few
months of earnest transition, followed by a long tail... maybe by the end of the
year it will be over, but I'm not holding my breath.

## Armstrong & Reasonable

On hold for now.

## Trebuchet

A new little project on the same proto-framework as I made for Armstrong. I want
to use a few features of Btrfs around volumes to make a lightweight deployment &
artifact system. Aimed at small deployments of a few machines or projects, for
small teams or individuals. A lot of stuff in the space is made for super large
scale, and doesn't make sense — despite hype — otherwise.
